## [1 - Family history](http://webofstories.com/play/17060)

If you want to go way back, if you go like, 16 of my
**great-great-grandparents, in 1840 they all would have been in Germany,
but by 1870, they all were in America**. So if you know, consider all
the different lines. My mother; my father’s, the Knuth part of my
ancestry was the most diverse, in a way. He came from
Schleswig-Holstein, rather near the border with Denmark, and he was
the last to come over; during the Schleswig-Holstein crisis in the
1860s; I think it was 1864, probably, he went AWOL from the army; he
didn’t want to fight against the Prussians, and he decided to come to
America, and knocked on the window one night, and told his parents,
I’m out of here, and wound up in Illinois, and then worked, learned to
be a blacksmith at that time.

So then his wife was somebody he met in
America. She had come — her family had come over earlier from the
Hannover area, and she lived in Indiana, all very near Chicago area,
and so that part of the family is from a different part of Germany. My
mother’s side came; they all emigrated in 1840s, and they were **farmers
in the area of what is now Niedersachsen**; it’s a small town in Germany
called **Bad Essen**, and they, her family came and were farmers in Ohio,
near Cleveland, Ohio. So they, yeah, the background then is, my
father’s side round Chicago, where he was born and grew up, and my
mother’s side from Cleveland Ohio, where she was born.

My dad’s first
teaching assignment was in Cleveland, and that’s where he met my
mom. Then he got a call to Milwaukee, which was way far from any of
their, you know, anybody else in the family, because it was a job that
opened up, so he went and took this job at a school that needed a
teacher.

