## [10 - Why I chose to go to Case Institute of Technology](http://webofstories.com/play/17069)

In high school, as I said, mathematics was just confusing to me. When
I got to Case, though, the teachers, the chemistry teacher was, seemed
to know chemistry okay, but he didn’t know anything about physics or
math. My physics teacher knew physics and chemistry, but my math
teacher knew all three subjects, and I had terrific respect for him,
because he seemed really smart, and also he was very hard to
please. No matter, you know, I could show him what I was doing in
calculus, but he would, he never seemed to be impressed, so this was
frustrating to me. **I’d never had a teacher that I couldn’t impress**,
you know, so I worked even harder at my math. But he had a good sense
of humor, and his name was Paul Guenther. And finally, after two
years, I was able to impress him a little bit, and so this was
good. But I developed an interest in Mathematics, but I have to go
back a little bit. 

I, when I was choosing what college to go to, I had
won several scholarships, and one of the scholarships would have been
to Valparaiso University in Indiana, associated with the Lutheran
Church, and it was, but there I would have been a major in music, and
the other scholarship was to Case in Cleveland, which was where I
would major in physics, and since my mother’s family is from
Cleveland, she knew that Case had very high standards, and very few
people that she knew were able even to be admitted to Case, and there
was, considered to be one of the hardest schools to do. I’d never
heard of MIT, by the way, until some years later, or much less
Caltech. But **Case, to me, was a challenge**, where I would really have
to work hard and well, Valparaiso, it would be something where I could
just do some; music would seem to me much easier. And I decided to go
for the challenge, at Case, and I was admitted to; they had a special
section for Freshmen, called the Honors Section, where 20 of us were
given, were taught each of our classes by the heads of departments. So
I really had the, Case’s best, you know, physics teacher, chemistry
teacher, math teacher and English teacher.

