## [11 - University life: my basketball management system](http://webofstories.com/play/17070)

I believe it was the first year they had tried this, and I’m not sure
how long they continued the experiment, but the teachers, but what
they called us the Honor Section, and this just meant that **20 of us
just took all our classes together**, while other students would tend to
mix. I don’t think the other students all spent Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday the same as, the same hours, like we did. And so the classes
that I had, then I think they challenged us a little more too, than
they challenged the other students, perhaps.

Still, I had time to do
you know, to work on the school paper and to, one of the important
issues of going to Case at that time was to **join a fraternity**. The,
most of the interesting action on campus would be centered around the
fraternity system, and so I pledged a fraternity also in my Freshman
year, and I guess I can say more about that.

But I had mentioned that
during the spring of my freshman year is when my *Mad Magazine*
article came out, you know, and so that well, that led later to, later
on I was **editor of a magazine that we founded at Case**, called
*Engineering and Science Review*, which wrote about topics in science,
and I wrote an article about Potrzebie System for that publication. I
was in the music, I was in the basketball; I was **manager of the
basketball team**, at Case.

And I’ll say a few words about that, because
after I got into computers later on, I combined that with my managing
the Basketball team. So I devised a strange formula that I don’t
believe in much any more, but anyway, I had it at the time, where you
could **compute each basketball player’s real contribution** to the
game.

Not just the points that he made, the baskets that he made, but
really you know, taking everything into account, so for example, if
you have possession of the ball in basketball, this is worth
something. In fact, when you’re watching a basketball game, if you
sort of add one point to the score of the team who has the ball that
sort of gives a more fair indication of what the real score is of the
game. So **possession of the ball is worth maybe one point**. You can work
it out after the game; you can say, really, how many times, when you
had possession of the ball did you really turn over, and fumble it, or
you know, how many points did you really get during that series? And
so you can work out that it may be worth only seven-tenths of a point
or something like this. But anyway, possession of the ball is worth
something. So if you fumble, then you’ve lost your team one point, or
seven-tenths of a point. So that’s a minus something for you. If you
steal the ball, if you recover a fumble, you gain; your team gains
possession, so you get credit for stealing the ball.

If you make a
basket, in those days it was only two points, you don’t have the
three-point shots in those days, but if you can make a basket you get
two points, but **your team also loses possession**, the other team gets
possession, so you don’t really; you didn’t really win two points for
your team when you made the basket, you made two points, but you have
to subtract from that, the fact that you have to get the ball
again.

So at the end, according to my formula, the sum of all the
players’ contributions would be the amount by which our team won or
lost. But it would rate, you know, if somebody makes a shot and
misses, then sometimes our team gets the rebound, sometimes the other
team gets the rebound, so I, you lose a little bit for taking a shot
and missing. So **I calculated a huge number of statistics** for every
player, and I had a spotter, who would call to me, and I could write
it down, every little thing, and after the game I would go and punch
cards that recorded all these statistics, and **fed them into a little
computer program** that calculated the formula and made a list for every
player, what their real contribution to the game was, not just the
field goals and all these traditional statistics.

So Case’s Coach, Nip
Heim, loved this system, and you know, he posted these numbers, and
the Case News Service was always good at trying to plant interesting
stories in the local paper, so they sent reporters out to, and we
showed, you know, told about this formula, and IBM heard about it. So
**IBM sent out a cameraman**, a camera crew, to make a film of me spotting
a game, you know, and there, our Case team playing basketball of
course, but then, how I would punch the cards, you know, and put it
into the IBM computer. Before they took the shot of the IBM computer,
they planted a great, big IBM sign on the machine, so that nobody
could fail to miss it, you know, that I was doing this, and then I’m
turning the buttons on the console, and getting the numbers out, and
it’s getting printed out on the IBM printer, and then the Coach is
looking at it and posting this up.

So this was a little movie that I
was in, about two or three minutes long. IBM supplies this movie to
CBS, and they put it on the Sunday Evening News with Walter Cronkite,
and **all my relatives in Florida can see me on TV**. This was very
exciting. Also US News and World Report ran a story about it, and so
this was my connection between computing and sports, when I was at
Case. This was also a clever way for IBM to get their advertisements
in there, rather subtly, but it was a fun.

That was when I first
realized how hard it must be to be a movie star, because I had to walk
through these scenes six times everything, you know, **punch those cards
over and over again**. So I can see, how could Audrey Hepburn possibly
look so beautiful after the sixth take, you know?

