## [12 - University life: the fraternity system](http://webofstories.com/play/17071)

At Case, as I said, **I pledged a fraternity**. That was one of the things
that — I’d met a few Case graduates in Milwaukee, or Case students,
before, and they said — oh, Don, fraternities are the big thing at;
you’ve got to take that very seriously when you go there. Well,
anyway, the fraternity system was maybe a little different then than
it is now. It certainly had its pros and cons, but it was a big; it
was certainly a focus of my life at Case, because after my freshman
year I would live at the fraternity, and with all my fraternity
brothers. 

The first thing, though, was something we called Hell
Week. Raising. This is, or **hazing**, I mean. I’m sorry, forget that I
said raising. And for seven days, all of us pledges, before we could
become full-fledged fraternity members, were at the mercy of all the
other brothers, who would have their paddles, and also, you know, we
were sleep deprived, and basically they were, we were also cleaning
the fraternity house, so **that’s when I learned about ammonia and
painting things**, and scrubbing walls, and doing other, you know,
fixing the roof, and things like this, that we would be doing, but
then, but meanwhile they would also, they would play tennis where we
were the balls, and they would, you know, swat us, and it hurt; and do
other things to make sure that, you know, we knew that they had the
power and we were just unimportant now.

So **this is illegal now**, and,
but it was **my equivalent of going through boot camp**, I guess, which,
you know, I never went into military service. And, you know, I matured
an awful lot during that week. After that week, and I’d gotten through
without the, you know, this time, I had a confidence that I’d never
had before, so **it’s hard for me to say that I wouldn’t want my son to
go through the same thing**. I don’t think he ever did, but it’s a
paradoxical thing, in my estimation. Still, that was part of getting
into the fraternity, and I have a picture of myself that they took at
the end of it, unshaven, and looking pretty beat, but still knowing
that I had come through an ordeal, which was something; it’s a
question in my mind, how to really give that education to somebody in
a way that is legal, would be legal. Now we’d have people suing.

