## [14 - Bible study at university and a time of personal challenge](http://webofstories.com/play/17073)

I’m not a real involved with the groovy set, I guess, throughout all
my student time, and I remember then **Jill and I** started getting to
know each other real well, and we would go to church together on
Sundays. She was a Methodist, I, we studied, **we went to Bible Study
classes** at her church on Sunday School. I had never gone to Sunday
School, because I went to a Lutheran School as a child. We had
something about Bible during the week, so why should I do something,
why should I do anything more on Sunday? I’ve had plenty of religion
during the week. But she had gone to public school and she, her
tradition was to go to study the Bible on Sunday mornings, and so I
went with her to church, and I learned something about that. 

In
college, our teachers were, I was introduced to lots of **atheists**, and
people from lots of different religious experiences and this was
something totally different, totally foreign to my previous
experience, and I, so **I went through a time of personal challenge**,
where I was trying to say, well, what do I really believe? Up to that
time I had just, I had just listened to what my teachers said and
passed the exams, and did what was expected of me, but I internalized
something about what, you know, is there a God, and if so, how do you
solve various paradoxes associated with God? 

And I went through that
kind of experience during the Freshman and Sophomore years mostly in
college, before I became somewhat comfortable with my, with
internalizing what I had been taught as a child. And I’m sure that if
I’d come from another background, I would have turned out differently,
but, and I personally believe now that God is alive in many ways, but
I do believe, you know, **I do believe that God is somehow,
mysteriously, involved with our universe**, and that underlies a lot of
what I do, and I also know I will never be able to prove it, but I’m
thankful that I could never prove it, because if it was proved, I
think then I would lose interest in the whole subject; there would be
no mystery, and no interest in it.

So I, as they say, the growing up
in a religious way took place during this time, when I’m meeting my
future wife.

