## [15 - Extracurricular activities at Case](http://webofstories.com/play/17074)

I was on **lots of sports teams**, the cross country team, baseball. We
would have a chance to; we would have a chance to travel to lots of
other places then, with the team. That was fun as well. I worked on, I
was the **founding editor** of this magazine, *The Engineering and Science
Review*, and then, active in various other things, for example I was
**vice president of my fraternity**.

There was one story about the
newspaper and my fraternity I might as well mention. That we, I was, I
would go to downtown Cleveland, where the newspaper was being typeset,
and **that’s where I first got experience with Linotype machines**, and
the way real printing was done. And I would be the, at first I was the
copy editor, so I would check for errors in the text, before they did
the final print run, and I noticed that there was a story about one of
our Theta Chi fraternity parties, before Christmas, and it said that
we had served hot buttered rum, and, well, it dawned on me that we
actually weren’t supposed to serve rum at a fraternity party, and
still, it was a linotype machine, and you had to pay for every
correction that you made, and you had to keep your corrections to one
line, if they had to reset several lines — so **I changed it to hot
buttered popcorn**. And that worked out okay for the — for the
story.

Now, so I got more experience in writing, publishing, during
that period, and we had the Chair of the English department as my
teacher, as freshmen, and we had very good teachers also, you know, in
my Western Civilization class, sophomore, junior years, so all the
time I was writing. I was writing stories for, I was, you know,
writing term papers, but I was also writing for campus
publications. And I came to believe that really **my education boiled
down to 50% mathematics, 50% English**; 50%, you know, writing skills,
and somehow combining those two things, for the rest of my life is
what everything else was somehow a mixture of those two things. 

I was
in so many extra-curricular activities in fact, that Case has
something called the Honor Key, which is based on points. You get so
many points for being in the band, so many points for being in a
fraternity, not very many for that, but certainly for the newspaper
and for singing in the choir, chorus, and participating in other
campus things, and **if you get a certain number of points then you win
the Honor Key**, and at, you know, at Graduation Day they’ll mention the
four or five students who have won the Case Honor Key. Well, it turned
out I had enough points to win the Honor Key, but after three years,
and, you know, so I think I had more points, **more Honor Points than
anybody else had had in the history of Case**, so again I was, you know,
a machine, saying, “Oh? There are points for this? Okay, I’d better do
this.” And I signed up for these things. So I was involved with lots of
extra-curricular stuff.

I also had a chance to do a little bit of
writing music. I wrote a five-minute musical comedy for our fraternity
to perform at the whatever they call it, the oh, I forget what it was;
it was an annual thing, where each fraternity would put on some kind
of a skit. Varsity Day, or something, I can’t remember what we called
it. And we would go to a theatre in downtown Cleveland and perform for
whoever wanted to listen in. I **wrote this five-minute musical comedy
called “Nebbish Land”**, based on nebbishes, you know, these were
popular in the Greeting Card Industry at the time. And that I still
have the score for, so maybe I’ll, maybe I’ll put some of the music
for that in my book on fun and games.

