## [16 - Taking graduate classes at Case](http://webofstories.com/play/17075)

At Case I put a lot of time into stuff out of class, but in class, I
found a really clever way to, right now, let me brag this way to say,
to **avoid having to study too hard**, for my classes. In the first place,
I noticed though, that when I was a sophomore, my grades started to go
down, in the first part of my sophomore year. And I ascribed it to too
much ping-pong playing and playing cards too much in the dorm, and so;
no, I’m sorry; this was the **second half of my freshman year. I started
having a little problem with my grades**, and so I had to give up
ping-pong.

But starting in my sophomore — junior year, I found out that
you could take graduate courses at Case, and they were **easier than the
undergraduate courses**. The reason is that Case had really strict
admissions requirements for undergrads, but they were fairly loose
about admitting graduate students. I think they wanted to build up,
you know, admit graduate students, so when you had graduate students,
in a class, they usually didn’t know as much as the undergrads did, so
if you would take a graduate course, you didn’t have as much
competition, you know, and the teacher would recycle stuff, and all
this. So I started taking graduate classes, and you know, and all
these hotshot undergrads would be taking the other classes.

And as a
result, I had accumulated also, by the time I was a senior, I had
accumulated lots and lots of graduate credits. Now, as a result then,
Case did, on Graduation Day, Case did **an unprecedented thing that had
never been done before, they awarded me a Master’s Degree**,
simultaneously with my Bachelor’s Degree. And this, the faculty had
gotten together and made a, and voted unanimously that this should
happen, and I remember, you know, that was another thing that got into
the newspapers at the time, that they were awarding a Master’s Degree
at the same time as a Bachelor’s Degree. So, but the reason was that I
had taken these graduate courses because they were easier. I didn’t, **I
don’t know if I’ve ever told anybody else this** before today, but that
was one of the reasons I could do so many other things.

