## [17 - Physics, welding, astronomy and mathematics](http://webofstories.com/play/17076)

I started in physics, and I continued in physics; as I said, I liked
my math teacher very much, but I was a physics major, and in sophomore
year I had another very good physics professor, and started learning
**quantum mechanics**, and had classes in astronomy, and I also had a
class called, I don’t know what it was called, but it was a laboratory
class.

All **physics majors were required to know how to do things like
welding**. Now, I was always very **bad at lab work**, in chemistry lab, I
was always the last to finish experiments, and I would break the
beakers and get chemicals on my hands and burn them and things like
this, and start fires, things; it was bad, but when I got into this
welding, this class where I’m supposed to do **welding, it was just
dreadful**. I mean I couldn’t see, you know, I wear rather heavy
glasses, and we had to wear goggles while we were welding, but the
goggles wouldn’t fit over my glasses, so I couldn’t, you know, so I
couldn’t wear my glasses and my goggles at the same time.

So I’m
sitting there with these goggles that I can’t see very well out of,
and I’ve got this electrical thing, which is thousands and thousands
of volts, where I’m supposed to be welding material, but the table is
way lower than I am; I’m kind of tall, and so I, and so here I’m
holding this thing way out of my range, and I’m supposed to, you know,
I’m supposed to get, solder things together, or whatever you call the
stuff, and when I was supposed to put, to get one thing attached to
another, the teacher would, you know, would pick it up and it would
fall apart, by its own weight, so I was **failing in welding class**. And
it was **terrifying** too, you see, with all this electrical juice going
on in there, and me not being able to...

My astronomy class, I found out
that it was very frustrating. I could pass all the exams, in fact I
got a 100 on every exam in **my astronomy class, but secretly I hated
the subject**, and I decided that I would continue the classes **as
self-discipline**, because I didn’t want the teacher to know that I
hated the class. And I figured, you know, I’m not going to be, I have
to learn how to do stuff that I don’t enjoy as well as stuff that I
enjoy. So I studied very carefully for the exams in astronomy, but I
really — and why didn’t I like it? 

I’m trying, I believe it’s just
because I was just, I couldn’t imagine how, they were so different
from mathematics, in astronomy you would never be able to go to the
sun and really know what it was like there. You always had secondary
information. If I would be an astronomer, I would never, I would, I
would have to die before I would know anything, which was really true,
because it’s **all based on speculation**. It’s all based on our best
guesses about the way the universe is, and nothing that you can really
experience yourself, or prove correct. In physics, the same way,
nature is beyond our grasp, and you don’t know. 

But mathematics was
different. **Mathematics had this certainty about it** that, where you
could finish a problem, and you could say, you know, I know I’ve got
the answer. And so I like that. **It was easy**. It’s much easier; you
know, I have to admire the people who, the scientists who spend their
life and never know whether they’ve solved the problem or not, they
just get supporting evidence for or against it, but to me, anyway,
mathematics got more and more appealing, for the reason that it gave
me some certainty; **just the opposite of the reason why religion was
appealing**, because it didn’t have certainty, I mean I would feel
unhappy of the life where I had nothing certain, and life where I had
everything certain. In either extreme, life, it’s hard for me.

