## [18 - My math teacher at Case and a difficult problem](http://webofstories.com/play/17077)

I gravitated toward mathematics. And there was another reason. Our
mathematics teacher was very, was a very eccentric guy, and also very
hard, my **second year mathematics teacher**, also hard to please, and he
had quite a reputation at Case, because, **a couple of years earlier, he
had flunked the entire class**. He decided that none of them was
learning anything; he gave F to everybody in the course, so Louis
Green was a legend at Case.

And I was taking his class, as a
sophomore, called “Basic Mathematics”, which he had written the textbook
for himself. And that was a course where you, stuff like, lot, things
that are different from the continuous things that physicists
study. And there must, you know, there must be something in the way I
grew up that made **integer numbers more appealing to me**. I, I mean it’s
associated with computing, as everyone knows now. Of course **computers
didn’t exist**, or hardly existed in those days.

I’ll speak more about
my first view of a computer later, but the, here we are, in Louis
Green’s “Basic Mathematics” class, and I’m getting to a different kind
of mathematics than calculus, and one day he gave a problem to the
class. He said, “Here’s a problem that I don’t think — **if anybody solves
this problem, I’ll give you an automatic A in the class**”. And the
problem, now, it turns out, well, I can state the problem, he said, if
you, putting parentheses around into a mathematical formula, if you
have a formula with five variables, A, B, C, D, E. **How many ways can
you put parentheses into that formula** so that you are combining two
things at a time?

So you could say, A, you could say, parenthesize AB,
and then parenthesize C, and then D or E, or you could start with B
and C and combine that with A, and so different ways to do this. So if
you start out with *n* of these variables, and you put, you combine with
parentheses, what, how many ways are there to do it? And this, by the
way, is something very dear to the hearts of computer scientists now,
because we call it **the number of binary trees with *n* leaves**. But
Louis Green gave us, as a problem, as a challenge, could we determine
this number? And if anybody could, he said he’d give an A to
them.

Well. I don’t know to this day whether he knew the answer to the
problem or not, but I have found out subsequently that **the answer was
published in the 18th century**, and, and had a long history. And so
these numbers are so famous now that one of my friends, Richard
Stanley at MIT, has found **128 different interpretations** of these
numbers, parentheses is just one of these 128 ways. And he’s collected
that many ways. In fact I had the honor of discovering number 128 last
year, when I was with him in Sweden, but that’s; anyway.

My sophomore
year, Louis gives us this problem, and we all knew Louis’s reputation,
so we figured, **why work on the problem? He’ll never give out a problem
that we could actually solve**, why should we, you know, why should we
waste time on this silly thing? But it turned out that I was on the
football, I was in the band, actually, not the football team, and **our
band was going to play in Detroit**, at the football game, on Saturday,
but **I missed the bus. I got up too late**, so I was, so I found out the
bus had just left for Detroit, and I had a whole, and I had figured
I’d spend all, you know, a wasted day, all day in Detroit.

So I
figured, okay, I’ll work on Louis, I’ll spend this day thinking about
Louis Green’s impossible problem. And **I got lucky, and figured, and
found the answer to it**, and so I wrote it up on two sheets of paper,
and turned it in on Monday morning, and he looked it over, and on
Tuesday, he said, **“Okay, you get an A in this class.”** So I’m still a
physics major, but I took his math class, and so I cut class the rest
of the quarter, and he lived up to his agreement, and I got an A on
my, on the score.

Well, I felt a little guilty afterwards, having cut
class, so I served as his grader for his course the following
year. But that, what was I going to say? So, but **that summer I
switched into mathematics as a major**, because of my experience with
the welding in physics, and because I found that mathematics was
something that I would be able to actually prove, prove correctness,
and that, this appealed to me. Still, I didn’t study mathematics that
much, because I already had the A, and an A was what I was looking for
in my college grades.

