## [19 - My interest in graphs and my first experience of a computer](http://webofstories.com/play/17078)

How did I get into computers? I had a scholarship to Case, but it was,
it didn’t cover my whole tuition; it just covered part of the tuition,
and so I took a part time job. My parents had no money, and I took **a
part time job working in the Statistics Department**. Taking, and one of
the things I would do, would run a card sorter, an IBM card sorting
machine, which was kind of a fascinating thing. You put the; take
these punched cards, and you put them in the thing, and it distributes
into different pockets, and then you pull them out in certain orders,
and afterwards look at the results, and you draw graphs. And so I was
drawing graphs for the Statistics Department. 

I guess I should say
something more about graphs, while it flashes into my mind. In high
school, I had taken time, one summer, working with; I was **fascinated
by this idea of graphs** in mathematics, where you have, you know, as a
function, as variable X varies, you have Y as a function of X, then
you draw the position that’s Y units above the axis, and it makes a
picture. And since I like visual things, I was fascinated by the idea
that I might be able to take, start with the picture that I wanted to
do, and find the equation that would, when you graph the equation, you
would get that picture. And so I played around with graphs. I spent
one summer in high school, I had drawn hundreds and hundreds of
graphs, where I would take, where I would take an equation like the
square root of X? + 5, 5x, minus something else, and I would, and then
I would draw the graph. 

And I had, and **my dad had a little calculating
machine**, which was a, where I, which could calculate square roots. It
actually would print it out. He was an accountant, so it would also
print it out on tape, that I could run this machine and it would do
the multiplying and stuff for me, and then I would have this function
of, and then I would say, instead of X? + 5x, I would maybe change it
to X? plus 4x, and draw that graph too, until I would learn how
different graphs looked. 

I didn’t have calculus, I didn’t know
calculus in high school, but I did know how to graph an equation, and
that fascinated me, so I had played, I worked so hard on this, in
fact, on this orange graph paper that I had, **I started to get
headaches**, it was not easy on the eyes, and I think I started wearing
heavier glasses at this time, because I worked on the graphs, but this
had given me some experience with graphs, and liked, I liked that kind
of mathematics, even when I was in high school. 

So now, I got my
first, I got my first part time job at Case; I’m supposed to draw
graphs for the statisticians. So that’s fine, and downstairs from the
sorting machine was a new computer, an electronic brain, as they
called it, in those days, and it was the first, it was called the IBM
Model 650. This was the, historically, **the first computer that was
mass-produced**; there were more than 1,000 of them. Before that,
computers had; no computer had been made more than a few dozen at the
most.

And this computer arrived, about midway in my Freshman year at
Case, and it was sitting in a room downstairs from the Statistics
laboratory, where I was working. So I could peer through the window at
this computer, and with its flashing lights it looked rather
exciting. And one day a guy saw me looking through the window, and he
said, **he invited me to come in, and he explained to me how the machine
worked**, and so it was quite fascinating to me that it could do things
much different than this mechanical calculating machine that my dad
had shown me.

So I took a look at **the operating manuals for the
machine**, and pretty soon I, he allowed me to punch cards that would go
into that machine, as what; you know, I knew how to run a sorter, but
now I could actually punch a card that would make a computer
program. And I, and so I began to learn something about the inside of
this machine.

