## [20 - Learning how to program on the IBM 650 (Part 1)](http://webofstories.com/play/17079)

I read the manuals that came from IBM, and it had; the manuals had
example programs in there, and I thought of better ways to write those
programs. I thought of, you know, well, okay, this program works, but
if you did it this way, it would be even better. And so that’s given
me some confidence that maybe I had a talent for programming. Now, **if
the manual hadn’t had these bad examples in it, I probably would not
have gotten interested in programming**, because I wouldn’t have this
confidence, and I would have been scared and say, oh, I would never
think of this.But the fact is, the manuals were pretty stupid, and
that’s what gave me the confidence that I should think a little more
about programming, because I might be, you know, I might be good at
it.

So, you know, I started to learn a little bit about computers in
my Freshman year, then when I pledge at the fraternity, one of the
fraternity brothers had a problem that he needed to solve, and he was
eval — **finding the roots of fifth degree equations**. And I had learned
about a program called the Bell Interpretive System that was, that
looked like it wouldn’t be too hard to solve this problem on, and so,
since he was, you know, he didn’t really want to do it himself, so for
my fraternity brother I wrote a, I wrote something that would, could
**do one of his homework problems for him**, and that was, and it seemed
to run correctly the first time. I find it hard to believe, now, but
it, as far as I know, it did.

And so he was happy about that, and I,
you know, and I got more involved with the people at the computing
center, where, when I, when they stared letting me use this IBM
machine during the night. And so between my freshman and sophomore
year, I was, I had **a part time job at the computing center**, working
for them. Really, they allowed us to write software that other people,
other students, would be using.

The first computer program I wrote,
and it was the following; I had to find the prime factors of a
number. So you would dial in on the console of the machine; there were
rotary switches, and you could set the switch to some number, like
100, and then it would punch out 100 is equal to two times two, times
five, times five. So we **find the prime factors of the number you dial
on the console switches**.

I still have a copy of my program for that,
that I wrote, and it started out something like 60 or 70 instructions
in the program originally, and two weeks later I had the program
working correctly, and it had about 130 instructions in it, and I
think I had removed **more than 200 errors**, during the time. I mean I
not only learned about programming, but about making errors. So what
can go wrong when you? Well, anyway, I did, I didn’t really know that
much about programming, at the time, but I learned it a heck of a lot
by this exercise of trying to find prime factors of a number.

