## [21 - Learning how to program on the IBM 650 (Part 2)](http://webofstories.com/play/17080)

So I learned certain things like, what’s; this was **a decimal computer**,
it worked not in the binary system, but in the decimal system, and you
had ten-digit numbers, so I could learn, so it was also very slow, the
division instruction in the machine took four milliseconds, that’s a,
I think it’s something like four nanoseconds, in other words **now
machines go a million times faster**. But you know, incredibly slow by
today’s standards, but, so you couldn’t do that many divisions per
second.

And my method of finding prime factors was just to try
dividing you know, you can divide by two? No. Divide by three?
No. Divide by four? No. Until you find a factor. So now you take the
largest ten-digit number that doesn’t have any factors. **This program
would take a long, long, long time**. So one of the things I had to do
was make it go a little faster. I wouldn’t divide by two and three and
four and five, I could skip over the even numbers if it’s not
divisible by two, it’s not divisible by four.

And, you know, I had to
do things like that in order to, then I, as soon as I got up to a five
digit divisor, then I could stop; I didn’t know then back then, you
know, I didn’t realize that at first, but I didn’t have to divide by
every possible thing, because **if it has a divisor at all, the smallest
divisor has to be less than the square root** of the number you’re
looking at, less than or equal. I think I first thought less than, and
then I, then I found I had to change my program to less than or
equal.

One of the most subtle bugs was, and it took me, and it took me
a hard time to do it, was the following. What if the number had lots
and lots of prime factors? Well it turned out there are ten-digit
numbers that have, **I could only punch eight prime factors on a card,
on the answer card**, and so I would have to prepare my program, because
I mean you can have more than 30 prime factors, so I could, so I had
to change my program so that it wouldn’t only punch one card as the
answer, but it would also punch up to four cards.

So anyway this was,
I’m just trying to explain why this little program of finding prime
factors was so instructive for me at the time, and I did it near the
end of my freshman year, and I was allowed **to spend all night sitting
at the machine, turning the dials, turning the buttons**, and Case had
an extremely intelligent attitude toward undergraduates. They allowed
us to go and touch the computers, do everything ourselves, work
overnight, sleep in the, you know, in the room, and write programs
that would be used by other people on campus.

And Stanford had a
completely different idea. If you used the computer **at Stanford, I
learned later, they had a professional staff** that had been sent to
them by IBM, of scientists who would do the; you would submit the job
to them, they would put it through the machine, and you know, you’d
get your answers the next day.

Case, all hands on, we are allowed to
all that stuff ourselves, and even, **they didn’t worry that we were
going to break the machine**, you know, we’d learned how to open up the
panels, and you know, when paper jams and cards jam, and things like
this, or, we could wire the boards and all that stuff. So what if
we’re freshmen? That’s okay. And I think Case and Dartmouth were the
only two universities that were so liberal for allowing undergraduates
to play with the machines in those days.)

