## [22 - Writing a tic-tac-toe program](http://webofstories.com/play/17081)

So I got my summer job at, in the computing center, so I didn’t come
home to Milwaukee, except for a short trip that summer. And this was
**before I had met these girls** I was telling you about, in my sophomore
year. So **I had only the computer to be with**, and my second program was
to change the numbers from decimal to other bases, but my, but that
was a fairly quick.

**My third program** is the one that I spent the most
time on at that time, was **to play tic-tac-toe**. Now I found out later
that a lot of computer scientists have worked on tic-tac-toe, Charles
Babbage, the famous guy who, you know, was planning a machine that
could do tic-tac-toe in England in the 1800s, Danny Hillis built a
tic-tac-toe playing machine out of Tinker toys, that went into the
computer museum at Boston. But anyway, I and, I decided I’d write a
computer program to play this children’s game, and it was a bit of a
challenge.

I wasn’t using Tinker toys, but this IBM 650 had another
interesting feature; not only was it decimal, with ten-digit numbers,
but it only had 2,000 altogether. So the total memory of that computer
was, oh well, let me see, 2,000 times, well what have we got? Five
bytes or so? So that’s **ten K bytes of memory**. Now, right now, if you
don’t have ten gigabytes, oh well, ten megabytes, you know, you’re
dead. You can’t load Microsoft Windows unless you hundreds of
megabytes, but here we had 10,000 bytes, total.

And so I, but I was
wanting it to play tic-tac-toe against me. I wrote three versions of
tic-tac-toe. One was an expert version, which you know, I pre-planned
a strategy that I knew was going to be right. What’s the second
version? I can’t remember. But the third version was the most
interesting. This was **the learning version, where the machine starts
out knowing nothing**. And it learns by experience. So it, so it
remembers all the possible positions on the tic-tac-toe board, just
barely enough to fit inside of ten K bytes, and every time it plays a
game, if it lost a game, it said, oh, these moves that I made were
bad. The moves that the other guy made were good. If it won the game,
it said, oh, my moves were good; the other guy’s were not. So it would
adjust; it kept; it had **one digit for every position**, so it would
start out like at four, and if you’d win a game it might go five. If
you’d lose, it’d go to three. And so then if you had different moves,
you’d it would try the ones that looked good in its ranking, and that
took me a month to write the program, and I learned a lot playing
around with that.

And afterwards I, then **I tried the learning program
against the expert program**, so I would use the expert program to play
and train the learning program, so how many times would the expert
play against, you know, like I think it was like 120 games or
something, then the learning program learned not to lose against the
expert.

Tic-tac-toe is a kind of boring game, because if you really
know how to play it, every game comes out as a cat’s game; it’s a
tie. Nobody wins. But before that it’s interesting. When you make bad
moves, it gets really exciting. So then I said, okay, now I’m going to
have two learning. I’m going to **have the learning game play against
the learning game**, so both of them start out knowing nothing about the
game, and each of them, so originally all their moves are completely
blindfolded, and you know, they’re blundering along, but then at the
end somebody happens to win the game, or somebody happens to lose the
game, so then their strategy changes a little bit.

Well now it turned
out that after about 350 games, they would learn how to play
conservatively, to draw against each other. It was a very dull game
that they finally wound up doing; they played safe moves instead of
brilliant moves, but it was anyway, a good learning experience for me,
writing this tic-tac-toe program.

