## [24 - Learning about the Symbolic Optimum Assembly Program and the Internal Translator (Part 2)](http://webofstories.com/play/17083)

I brought this to the summer place, and I spent nights looking at it
and psyching out how this program worked. And, wow, I found; first **I
figured out how this IT worked**, and so, oh yeah, that’s how they can
look in the algebraic formula and convert it into instructions, but
then, it was terrible style. The program was kludgy. You would read
it, and **every time they would do something, they did it the hard
way**. I looked at the SOAP program, the one that came by Stan Poley, **it
was elegant; it was beautiful; it was like hearing a symphony**. It was,
whenever it did an instruction, the instruction was sort of
accomplishing two things at once. Everything fit together
harmoniously; it was elegant code.

I said, boy, I’d love to write
programs like this guy can do. And conversely, you know, this clumsy,
clunky code that came from the other one, wow. You know, I can do
better than that. So **a couple of friends and I wrote an improvement of
IT, which we called RUNCIBLE**; every program had to have an acronym in
those days, and RUNCIBLE was Revised Unified New Compiler IT Basic
Language Extended or something. We had some reason for the word R U N
C I B L E. But we, but mainly we had, we wanted to redo that algebraic
language in a way that was more elegant and had more features, and so
improve it in, you know, in lots of ways and still stay within our ten
K bytes.

And so that was how I spent my first summer at the Computer
Center. It turned out that after RUNCIBLE was done, we also, I wrote a
user’s manual, for how to write, you know, how to use this program,
and curiously, this user’s manual was then used as a text book for
students the next year. And so **I was in the unusual position of taking
a class for which I had written the textbook, when I was a sophomore**,
one of my classes in computing.

Now, RUNCIBLE, we revised it the next
summer, and made it really, lots of bells and whistles, and still with
our ten K bytes, but we got a **floating point attachment**, and we had
some other things, so it was, so my friends and I came up with better
versions.

So here, this, and **I also wrote a SOAP Three**, I loved the
SOAP Two program we had from IBM, I wrote SOAP Three, which, which
improved on SOAP Two, and this was used as the assembler program for
other software development that we were doing. So here are Case is
allowing about a dozen of us **undergrads to write software** that’s being
**used by the other students and faculty** of Case, and I, the, Fred Way,
who is the director of this program, was very fore-sighted, able to
trust the students, and allow, and you know, and to, and we had a, we
had lots of fun talking to each other about all these issues, and we
did — 

New literature of journals — the *Communications of the ACM*
started up in 1958. All of a sudden we saw that there was, there were
people publishing ideas from other parts of the world, about how to
write programs, and we knew that **we had already discovered a lot of
these things too, and we had some better science** out there. So my
second technical publication, after Potrzebie System for *Mad
Magazine*, **my second technical publication** was about this RUNCIBLE;
the method we’d used in RUNCIBLE, to do the conversion of formulas
into machine code. And here I sent it to this magazine, the
*Communications of the ACM*, which was, which we had just, began, just,
had just begun to come out, and I was totally naïve, not
understanding anything about scientific journals or publication
conventions.

I had been seeing magazines; I knew what magazines were,
and so on, but no people, but there was **no idea of credit** for
something like this. It was just the story that was important. And so,
when I wrote this up, I was, I considered myself to be a spokesperson,
spokesman for these guys at Case Computer Center, who had been working
together to create RUNCIBLE, and I, you know, so I, so **I wrote an
article about the methods that are used in RUNCIBLE**. Nowhere in the
article did I mention the names of these other guys, who had been
working on it, and **I didn’t know that I was going to be getting credit**
for any of these ideas, I just wanted to describe the ideas, and so
this was a, you know, a, I learned later more about, about the
scientific conventions of publication, but I was just, you know, I was
just a journalist, and I was treating the story as that. So **we set the
story right when the article was published as part of my collected
works a couple of years ago.**

