## [25 - Adding more features to RUNCIBLE](http://webofstories.com/play/17084)

In those days, computing was so different from what it is now, not
only was the memory tiny, only ten K, and the speed was slow, but also
we, the way we wrote programs, well maybe as a result of that, the way
we wrote programs was something I would never do today, because **in
order to pack it into this small memory, we had to do, resort to some
trickery that was almost impossible to understand**, and therefore
highly likely to cause errors.

But one of the things we learned as,
early in trying to write software, is that **the users of your software
always suggest new features**, and they’re never satisfied. You give
them ten things, and they’ll want ten more, and so we kept adding
features and features. That’s called creeping featurism now. But we
had only this tiny machine, so how were we going to pack more and more
features, when there’s no space for it? And the answer is, we use more
and more tricks.

So in this compiler RUNCIBLE, there were **four
versions of the compiler**. You could ask it to produce computer
instructions for a machine that did, that had the so-called **floating-point
attachment**, or maybe your computer didn’t have the floating-point
attachment, so you either had floating point or not. If you
didn’t have the attachment, then you would have to go through a slower
routine that would simulate, and pretend that the attachment’s
there. Then you could also ask it to compile directly into machine
language, or you could ask it to compile into the **symbolic assembler
language**. The symbolic assembler would be able to produce slightly
better final product, but it would take longer, because after you got
the symbolic, you’d have to take those cards and run them through
another program before you could run them. So we had, so either
floating-point or not, either symbolic or not, it was four different
possibilities.

So we wrote it, we wrote the program in such a way that
there was a floating-point set of instructions, and a non-floating-point
set of instructions, each of these we had exactly, let’s say,
731 positions of memory for, so **you’d swap out those 731 for another,
and similarly for the symbolic and non symbolic**, you could swap out
two parts of the program; each of those parts of the program had to be
the exactly the same size, in order to pack it all in.

Somebody asks
for a new feature, or we want to extend the language a little more,
then we think of a way to do it for the floating point, but then we
have to think of a way to shorten the non floating point part of our
program, so **we kept on revising this program until it was really
inscrutable**. I mean every, all kinds of tricks were used for
that. When I’d have a constant that was used in one routine, I would
also make sure that it could be used in some other routine, for some
other, completely different purpose. Almost everything in the program
had many uses, and therefore a few months would go by, and we’d forget
about these tricks, and we would try to change something else, and
something would go wrong.

So it was **a very shaky, bad way to do
software**, but it was the way that, the only way we knew how to do at
the time, and it was, and **people couldn’t believe that we were able to
do with such a small computer**, to do as many things as it did.

