## [26 - Wanting to be a teacher and why I chose to go to Caltech](http://webofstories.com/play/17085)

**I never thought of that as a career. That was my summer job** at Case,
but there was no such thing as a career in computers, and computers
were just this weird thing on the periphery of society. What did I
really want to do, as my own career? When I was in grade school, I
wanted to be a grade school teacher. I wanted to, you know, if I was
in sixth grade I was thinking of myself as a future sixth grade
teacher, seventh grade and so on. And in high school, I wanted to be a
high school teacher. **I always viewed myself as having, as being a
teacher later on**, and also maybe with a part time job as a musician or
something. So I got to college, I wanted to be a college teacher, I
got to graduate school, I thought, okay, graduate school teacher.

But
**I never thought of computer science as a, as part of my career, it was
something that I could do in order to make money**, to prepare myself
for a career that I’d heard about before. It was like, so I was going
to be a physics teacher, then I was going to be math teacher, when I
switched to math. And I went to, okay, so, when I finally graduated
from Case, I had been recommended that I should go to the West Coast,
well, no, I chose the West Coast for graduate school, because my
family, we would go; finally we had enough money to take vacations in
the summer time, and we could drive round, and so **we had driven to the
different parts of the United States, and I fell in love with
California**, and so when I applied to graduate school, I applied to
Caltech, Stanford and Berkeley. Basically, where should I go to, to do
my mathematics?

And **I was accepted to all three, and I had
scholarships to all three**, and, but the, I was specially recommended
to Caltech, because of Professor Marshall Hall, who later became my
advisor, since at Case we had a visitor, Professor Bose, a great
Indian mathematician, who had just, who had been, introduced me to
research, and he **spoke very highly of Marshall Hall**.

**Bose**, at the
time, was doing his famous work about **disproving Euler’s conjecture
about Latin Squares**; it’s an interesting subject, a several hundred
year old problem, where people hadn’t been able to construct patterns
that are, that are useful in many parts of statistics and
combinatorics and Euler and this greatest mathematician of all time,
probably, or at least in everybody’s Top Ten, in the 1700s, had
conjectured that there was no solution to this problem, and three or
four people had even proved that he was right, but there were mistakes
in the proof, and so finally, my professor, my Professor Bose and two
of his co-workers found that Euler was wrong, and that there were
really patterns of that kind. And so Bose got me interested in
research, because I was at the Computer Center, and he had a computing
problem that he couldn’t solve, and he put me to work on Latin Squares
of order 12, and I came back the next morning with five mutually
orthogonal Latin Squares of order 12, and **this excited him very much,
and that was my third technical paper**, I guess, was this paper with
Bose.

But he recommended Marshall Hall, who was one of the leading
mathematicians in the combinatorial mathematics area, and so I liked
the idea of going to Caltech.

