## [27 - Writing a compiler for the Burroughs Corporation](http://webofstories.com/play/17086)

During the summer, between Case in Cleveland and Caltech in Pasadena,
I had a summer job, of writing compilers, this algebraic, this
software that converts algebraic language into machine language. **I had
a job writing a compiler for Burroughs** Corporation. Burroughs was
headquartered in Pasadena, I mean the Burroughs Division that was
dealing with software was headquartered in Pasadena, and Case had
recently installed a Burroughs computer that I liked very much, during
my senior year.

Some people from Thompson Ramo Wooldridge approached
me and said, Don, we understand that you can write compilers. We’re
going to put in a proposal to Burroughs to write a compiler for their
machine, the Burroughs 205, for a language called ALGOL, which was
just being invented at that time, the Algorithmic Language an
International Standard, that was supposed to replace FORTRAN, the most
popular language at the time. And so **Thompson Ramo Wooldridge was,
made a proposal to Burroughs for I believe it was $70,000, to create
an ALGOL compiler** for the Burroughs 205. The people who made this
proposal really, though, were **clueless about how to write compilers**,
so they hired me, a Case senior, to do the job, because they had heard
that I knew how to do it. I had done this RUNCIBLE and a couple of
versions of other software at Case, so spring of my Senior year, they
are showing me, they’re showing me about this machine that Burroughs
had, and I started playing around with the computer, and I had
learned, got interested in the project, but **Burroughs turned them
down**; they didn’t give them the contract.

So after Burroughs said, no,
they weren’t going to do it with Thompson Ramo Wooldridge, well I
said, well, wait a minute, I’ve, maybe I’ll write to Burroughs on my
own, and **I sent them a letter and said, I’ll, you know, for $5,000 I
can write you an ALGOL compiler**. Now $5,000 was a huge amount of money
in 1959, 1960. I mean **a college professor was making $8,000 a year** or
something like this. So I thought $5,000 was an incredibly rich thing,
you know, to do. I said to Burroughs, no, I, except that, I can do it
in the summer, except I won’t have time to implement all of this
ALGOL, I’ll be able to do everything except procedures. I’ll be unable
to, you know, which is actually the hardest thing to do in a compiler,
which is of subroutines, the ability to extend the language.

Well,
they wrote back, you, we can’t have ALGOL without procedures, **you’ve
got to put procedures in too**. And so I thought about it and said,
figured out, oh yeah, okay, I see how I can do it, but you’ll have to
pay me $5,500, instead of $5,000. So they said, okay. So I spent the
summer of 1960, that’s after my, after graduating from Case, **I spent
the summer writing this compiler** for ALGOL, for the Burroughs 205, and
I wrote it, but really **I had it only in pencil and paper**, I didn’t
have it ready to go, and then I would take it with me on, as I went
out to Pasadena, and work on it there when I was at the Burroughs
plant in Pasadena.

So on my way out West; I had a little Volkswagen,
that I had gotten from my parents, and **I drove 100 miles a day, and
got a motel, and sat down, and wrote code**, wrote software, and took 30
days to drive from Milwaukee to Pasadena, every day writing a little
bit of this software. Then I got to Pasadena, and had all my code, had
all my notes, and started putting it on to punched cards, and you
know, debugging it and **by Christmas time I had their compiler for
them**, and it was a machine that didn’t sell very well, so there
weren’t too many places in the world, but I heard for the next ten
years that people in Brazil were still using it a lot.

And so it was
a, it was an interesting experience for me, but **the most important,
from my point of view, was I had $5,500, which was enough to get
married**. And so in the summer of ‘61 Jill and I got married, and it
paid for our honeymoon trip in Europe, which was our first time seeing
the world.

