## [28 - Working for the Burroughs Corporation](http://webofstories.com/play/17087)

I got to Caltech as a student, a **grad student in mathematics**. Again I
was scared stiff that I wouldn’t be able to succeed, because the
students at Caltech were really, really selective they, **at Caltech,
the undergrads, one out of three of them was first in their high
school** class, and the other two out of three were very near the
top. And so it was awesome, the people there, but they only admitted
200 students a year in Caltech as undergrads. Graduate students, we
had 12 of us in the math program, and they were excellent as well. It
wasn’t like at Case where anybody could get into the Graduate School
at the time.

So I, so I knew I had my work cut out for me, and I,
again I went back into a mode where I did more than I needed to for my
classes, but I also liked the people at Burroughs, so I took, and so I
**took a consulting job at Burroughs**, working with their software group,
which I had great admiration for. Their software group had, for
another computer, the Burroughs 220, had written one of the best
pieces of software ever, an ALGOL compiler for the 220, and I got to
know the people who did that, and learned a lot from them.

So I
enjoyed joining their group, but I wasn’t, but according to the rules,
I couldn’t have my, I couldn’t have a fellowship from the National
Science Foundation or from the Woodrow Wilson Foundation; I couldn’t
have those, that financial support and not be a full time
student. Having, you know, it was **a no-no to also be a consultant,
also be working, working outside Caltech**. Wow, your education couldn’t
possibly be any good that way. So **I renounced those fellowships**, and I
did become a consultant, and I would spend time over at Burroughs
several days a week, and for the next six or seven, seven or eight
years, all the while I was down there in Pasadena.

The people at
Burroughs were splendid to work with. I was in a group called Product
Planning, which designed, had designed, or was, early on was in the
process of **designing a completely new kind of computer**, one that would
do in hardware what, what we had been doing in software before. That
kind of computer is, is not in, it’s been realized later that it
doesn’t really provide a real good cost benefit trade off, it’s better
to build cheap hardware and good, and then make software than to build
expensive hardware, but at that time it was you know, it was not at
all clear what the future would say about that issue. And so we had
**the most complicated machine ever built, the Burroughs 5000**, then the
5500, 6500, that came out later.

And the Product Planning group
where I was consulting was the group in charge of specifying the
machine. Another group, the Engineers, had to build the machine. It
was completely different than any machine done before. And my role as
a consultant was to **talk to the engineers who were building it and
make sure they understood what the designers on the other floor
knew**.

And so I got, really, to talk to almost everybody in the
company, and my role was more of a communications role than anything
else. These people, if they went through channels, they would have to
go several levels up the hierarchy, and down again, and **they couldn’t
talk to each other, but they could talk to me**, and then I could talk
to the other people in the other group, and so I, and so I could
provide a valuable service to Burroughs, and they, they would pay me,
I think, you know, I think I was getting $5 an hour, or $7 an hour;
considered high at the time, but it had no medical benefits or
anything associated with it, so from their point of view they were
getting a good deal too.

And one of my roles was to check out the
designs of the engineers, and see if there were any mistakes in them
before they would build the machine. They would first take their
designs and put them through a computer program to see if they would
simulate, and apparently work correctly, but then, **after they thought
it was working correctly, then they would show it to me, and I still
found several hundred errors in the design** that I was able to catch,
well you know, very weird cases that could come up, but hadn’t arisen
during the simulations, so that the expensive corrections to the
hardware weren’t necessary.

You know, really my role in that time,
well, communication and trying to find errors, you know, **if I could
look at somebody else’s program, or design, and couldn’t find any
mistakes in it, it was a rare event**, and I would feel bad. I mean
finding errors was my, was a big treat for me in those days, so far as
my work in computers was concerned.

