## [30 - My interest in context-free languages](http://webofstories.com/play/17089)

I had **no idea that that work connected with mathematics** in any way
whatsoever. I wear one cap in the computer — when I’m consulting for
Burroughs, and I wear another cap when I’m at Caltech as a student
learning mathematics. Mathematics was something where we proved things
correct; we knew what we were, you know, we knew what the rules of the
game were. In the computer field, we just fiddled with something until
it seemed to work and we couldn’t find any errors any more. But we
never had this idea that it could be mathematically correct.

The only
small exception to that was the area of syntax of programming
languages. This means the grammar of languages. I mentioned that when
I was in Seventh Grade my friends and I loved grammar, and we learned
about English grammar. Well, now I was seeing the same kind of things,
they were not nouns and verbs, but similar things in the algebraic
languages like ALGOL, that I was supposed to write software for, and a
theory had been developing called the **theory of context-free
languages**, that was appealing to me, because here was something that I
could be, I could use my mathematical cap and my and my computer cap
at sort of the same time. You know, my computer science intuition, and
my love of grammar and language was; would suggested interesting
problems, the mathematics that I knew suggested how to solve those
problems. So I, that was one thing where the two worlds, the computing
and the math world, were coming together for me.

And I have to say
that **on my honeymoon**, when Jill and I sailed to Europe, I brought
along with me a book by Noam Chomsky, which was one of the pioneering
things about context-free languages, and I read that in odd moments,
you know, when Jill was seasick or something, and I would try to solve
the problem about context-free languages. The problem I tried to solve
was, is there a way to test **whether a context-free grammar is
ambiguous or not**? Ambiguous means that you could write a sentence that
had two different ways to be understood. And I thought I might have a
way to resolve this, and I reduced it to several other problems

But I
couldn’t solve the problem, in general, and little beknown, you know,
I learned several years later that in fact three Israeli
mathematicians had already proved that the problem had no solution;
that there was no way to solve this ambiguity problem, in finite
time. But I didn’t know that during my honeymoon, and I just wanted to
mention that, **although I do love Jill, there were also other things
that I love too, and one of them was the mystery of context-free
languages**. Another time I guess I should, I have to mention is the
time when I forgot about one of our dates, and, when I was playing
with the computer at Case Tech, but we won’t talk about that. But she
doesn’t let me live that one down.

