## [31 - Getting my PhD and the problem of symmetric block designs with lambda equals two](http://webofstories.com/play/17090)

Here I am then, earning money as a computer person, and enjoying, and
then studying mathematics so that I can be a math teacher as a
career. And the idea that there could be any connection with this, or
there could be, ever be **an academic field of computer science or
something, never entered my mind** whatsoever as a possibility. Very few
people in the world had thought of it at that time either.

Now, at
Caltech, I — somebody had told me early on in life that you go to grade
school for eight years, and you go to high school for four years, then
you go to college for four years, and then you might want to go to
graduate school for another three years, and get your, and get a
PhD. I don’t know who had told me that early on, but somebody had said
that it takes **three years to get a Ph.D.**. And I had believed that and so
when I got to Caltech in 1960, I’m thinking, oh, okay, in 1963 I’ll
graduate. And I’ve just sort of set my sights that way. Now if
somebody had told me it was going to take five years, I’m sure I would
have graduated in 1965, but I had always been thinking I would
graduate in 63, so I, so **I just sort of planned ahead**.

It was, it
didn’t occur to me, until the day of graduation, that none of my other
colleagues were there. You know, Al Hales was there, but **just two of
our 12 had done it in three years**, and I think it was partly that,
just that we had set ourselves up that way, to do it.

My thesis, I was
working with **Marshall Hall**, who I hadn’t met before coming to Caltech,
but I got to enjoy. **His lectures were very disorganized, but he really
knew the subject**, so he would be teaching us about permutations, what
actually I found was that I would take notes of what he said during
class, and the problem was to figure out a permutation of what he had
said that made sense. What, how to re-order; you know, I mean every
important idea had been presented some time during that hour, but they
didn’t come to him in the right order, just **like now, I’m not thinking
of everything in the right order**, well he, you know, so his classes
were like that, but I learned a heck of a lot this way, by trying to
unscramble the notes of what he said in class, so I learned about the
things that he was good at.

And I decided that you know, one of the
unsolved problems that he posed to us, technical term is **symmetric
block designs with λ=2**. It’s a technical term that
really means; it’s something like geometry, except instead of having
two, instead of having one line through every two points, you have two
lines through every two points. And you know, instead of saying that
every two lines intersect in one point, every two lines intersect in
two points.

So this is a system called the symmetric block designs
with λ=2, and at the time I started working on this
unsolved problem **I was going to try to find infinitely many** such
designs, such, symmetric designs, and six were known altogether. And
so I thought, okay, but I had a new way to approach the subject, maybe
I’d be able to find infinitely many. Well, it, it’s a good thing that
I didn’t take that as my final project though, because I believe up to
this day **only one more has ever been found**, so nobody knows that there
is only finitely many, but it seems to be extremely hard to construct
these designs.

