## [32 - Finding a solution to an open problem about projective planes](http://webofstories.com/play/17091)

Another open problem had been mentioned in one of my classes, having
to do with projective planes, a finite kind of geometry, and the
projective planes; one of the things **Marshall Hall** was good at was
studying **projective planes, and he had developed some of the major
theories of it during the Second World War**. These have lots of
applications in code-breaking as well, and other, and kinds of code
making from, you know, transmitting reliable codes.

And I took his
class on projective planes, and one of the things he mentioned is that
no, that **only one projective plane of order 32 is known**, and only one
is known of order 64, and so, for whenever you had a power of two; two
times two times two times two times two, and you’d find, one of the
projective plane of that size, basically, that, it was a question
whether it was only; that projective plane was unique, or were there
other kind of geometries with this size? And I, the first open case
was of size 32. And I took a look at it, and I received in the mail,
as a result of a computer program that had been written, by R.J. Walker,
I think he was in Princeton, and he had found all of the — **he had
actually found new ones of size 32, by computer**, and he, he had a list
on this, of all of this, all of the projective planes of a certain
kind, which I later called I think a semi-field.

And he had two lists,
and both of the lists had 16 solutions on it. And the thing was, so
this gave him **32 different projective planes of a size 32**, 16 of them
were of one kind and 16 of them were of another kind, and that’s all
the computer, his computer found. But one of the 16 in the second list
was the one that had been known for years and years. So I thought to
myself, oh, all I have to do is find a pattern, a rule that would take
every one on the first list, and find its corresponding mate on the
second list, and **then I will have a rule that I can take on and solve
the next problem, 64**, the next problem 128, and so on, because my rule
that worked in the case of 32 would then be a general rule if I could
find this pattern.

And so I had gotten this list from him, it was in
my mail at nine o’clock in the morning, and I remember riding up in
the elevator with Professor Olga Todd, who was one of my professors,
and I said, Mrs. Todd, I think I’m going to have a theorem in two
hours. I’m going to find a way to match these 16 with these 16. And
well, I just had a hunch that it was possible, and sure enough, you
know, staring at it a little bit, a little bit, I found a connection,
and by noon **I had a theorem that had solved many, many cases of this
open problem about projective planes**.

I showed it to Marshall Hall,
and **he said, well Don, this is your thesis**. Write this up and get out
of here. You know, you don’t have to wait and do, you know, do this
other hard problem, just do this for your thesis. So **I felt a little
guilty of solving my Ph.D. thesis in two hours** and so I had, you know, I
spent another few months refining the result and adding on some
related theory.

But basically I could write a thesis of about 70
pages, and then, and that solved the problem that was considered by
people in this very small sub group of the world, who were projective
planologists, the finite projective plane people, that this was **one of
the problems that they had thought might never be solved**. So I had, so
that was nice. And it gave me a thesis.

Now, I, in order to graduate,
I also studied — you know, Caltech had other requirements that I had to
fill, fulfill too, but one of them, interestingly, had, was that you
choose some other classic problem of mathematics, and you see, and you
prepare for a month, read up on it, everything you can, and see if you
can say something new about the problem, and the problem that I
studied was what’s called **the Thue-Siegel-Roth Theorem**, in which
Freeman Dyson had made one of the main contributions, and I mention
that just because I know Freeman Dyson is interviewed in this series
of People’s Archive, and he’s become a good friend since then, but I
read his papers on the subject, when I was a grad student preparing
for; I think he had recently, I think he graduated about ten years
before I did.

