## [33 - Teaching a computer course at Caltech and being asked to write a book about compilers](http://webofstories.com/play/17092)

In my third year at Caltech I was also **asked to teach some classes
about computers**. A group of people said, you know, Caltech doesn’t
teach anything about computers, and we know that you’re consulting to
Burroughs, why don’t you, why don’t you think of giving a course, just
to, to offer to Caltech? So I had also, then been giving a once only
course, even before I graduated at Caltech, and they made the very
unusual **decision to hire me as an Assistant Professor after
graduation**.

Usually **a university won’t hire its own graduates**, except
MIT. But usually, you know, it’s considered bad to have inbreeding,
because a department can get bogged down in one philosophy, and you
usually want to bring in new blood. Well, Caltech, I guess, felt that
**I was sufficiently strange** of blood that they, that it was okay to
hire me too.

Now, meanwhile, in the January of 1962, I’m in **my second
year of Caltech, and in my first year of marriage**; we got married in
the summer of ’61, so Jill and I had six months of wedded bliss, we
started with our honeymoon, and then, and then we had a time before I
was **approached by Addison-Wesley to write a book about computer
science**, about computers. And in the January of ‘62, an editor from
Addison-Wesley took me out to lunch, and said, Don, we want, we need,
we would like to invite you to write a book about compilers. 

You know,
compilers, this is this system, thing that I had done for Burroughs
the previous year, and I had, I just finished, and you know, **you have
been recommended to us as somebody who knows how to write compilers,
and would you think about writing a book** like that? So I’m one and a
half years into graduate school at the time, and doing consulting for
Burroughs, but I, but, boy, I couldn’t get the thought out of my
mind. Wow, I love writing a book? I just, you know, I’d been working
previously on newspapers, magazines, you know, writing a few
articles. I enjoyed writing all the time, and I, and here was the
publisher of my favorite textbooks, Addison-Wesley, was asking me to
write a book for them.

And so right away I went home and I **jotted out
the titles of 12 chapters** I thought would be good for a book. And
then, well, our marriage was still happy, but it was different,
because I started **concentrating on this book, for the next 40 years**. 

I
thought I could finish the book, you know, rather quickly. I have
letters that I wrote in 1964 or five. No, ’64, I wrote a letter to
somebody saying, “I’m sorry I can’t visit Stanford University this year
because I have to **finish my book before my son is born,” you know. And
now he’s 40 years old**, and I still haven’t finished the book, but
that’s just; we’ll get to that. But I thought I, I thought I would
finish; I had no idea how long it would take me to, you know, to write
this book.

They asked me to write a book about compilers, but I, I
thought, well, wait a minute, **there’s a lot of other stuff goes on in
computer programming that you also need to know before you finish your
compiler**, so I said, would you mind if I put in chapters about these
other aspects of computer programming? And they said, no, go right
ahead. Okay, so this book, we, I, **we decided to call it “The Art of
Computer Programming”**. They liked that title.

My original motivation
for writing it was not only that I liked the idea of writing books,
but because **I could see a big need for such a book**. There was nothing
like it.

In fact, although I had written several compilers, and I knew
a lot about compilers, **I hadn’t invented any of the ideas in those
compilers**. I had just applied ideas that I had learned from other
people. And so everybody else I could think of, who was able to write
a book about compilers, I also, as far as I could see, they were
pretty biased and slanted. They would mention their own method, and
they wouldn’t mention anybody else’s method. But **I was the only person
I knew who didn’t have this axe to grind**. I had never invented
anything myself, I was just a writer, I could present everybody else's
idea, in a way that was consistent, and wouldn't distort the picture
the way they would, if they wrote it. You know, anyway, this is in the
back of my mind, when I'm saying, yes, I want to write this book. I
wrote the book because I didn't have any; because I felt that I was,
that I was fairly good at writing, and that I would be able to balance
the accounts of other people who had had more of a stake in it
would.

And of course as soon as I got started writing it, I naturally
would discover a few things too, and I had my, and I developed my own
biases and distortions. But, and **so I didn't succeed in my goal, of
making the unbiased presentation**, but I have to say that quite
frankly, I did believe originally that **that was my main reason for
writing the book**, it was needed, such a book was necessary, and I
couldn't think of anybody else who would be able to present the story
fairly. Not that I did it in fact fairly myself later, but at least I
couldn't think of anybody else who would do it.

And I began to, so I
began writing drafts of the material, starting then in the summer of
’62. I had classes of, during the beginning of ’62, but I started
drafting material for “The Art of Computer Programming”, and **the
course that I wound up teaching at Caltech, during my third year of
graduate school, was based on these notes** that I had made, preliminary
to “The Art of Computer Programming”.

