## [34 - 1967: a turbulent year (Part 1)](http://webofstories.com/play/17093)

My son was a year, my daughter was born in December of 66, and my son
was born in the summer of 65, so, you know, he's one and a half years
old, and she's one month old, my wife, Jill needed a gall bladder
surgery, I was scheduled to be a lecturer, a national lecturer, to go
around the country for three weeks, in February, and I was also
scheduled to do other things like lecture for three weeks in
Copenhagen in summertime, in France in May, et cetera, et cetera. I
had sent in the manuscript for Volume One, it was, you know, being
processed by Addison-Wesley, and the galley proofs were starting to
arrive early in 1967, but I was in the middle of writing Volume Two,
and I was actually almost exactly in dead center of it, I mean if it
has 900 pages, I was on page 450, or whatever it was, anyway, I was
almost exactly halfway done the Volume Two, and it was taking much
longer than, you know, I thought it should, and I was getting, it was
getting very hard to, some of the Mathematics was at the limits of my
ability, but I've got this deadline I've got to finish Volume Two,
because I had already promised that it would be done years ago. And
that's only Volume Two, there were supposed to be seven volumes. Okay,
so I'm going around and lecturing, my parents and Jill's parents came
to help out around here with the kids, but I had to leave for, I had
to leave, and this lecture tour meant that I was in a different city
every day. And so in one way it was terribly boring, because the small
talk is the same in every city. What can you say in the first, when
you first meet somebody? So you know, you get up in the morning, get
in the airplane, go, somebody else, somebody greets you, the faculty
takes you out to lunch, they ask you, where are you going next, Don?
And so on, and how is your book? And then you give your lecture, and
then you sleep, and the next day, you're in Atlanta or something. So,
but on this trip, maybe it was my first time? No, one of my stops was
in Stanford, one of my stops, well, there were, yeah, one of the
important stops was in Cornell, and so, yeah, different places, I was
in Rhode Island, where there was a college, where nobody understood
Computer Science, at all, and the audience just sat there dutifully
listening to me and, you know, and not smiling, you know, and then I
left, and then I went to University of Pennsylvania, and the students,
and the overflow crowd, and everybody is with me and everything, and
it's an exciting lecture to give, and then I went to Cornell, and I
had two days there. It was a weekend, and Peter Wegner was there. As a
professor, I had met him before, in England, or no, he had come to
Caltech, anyway, so Peter and I went hiking around Ithaca, on the
weekend, and one of the big questions, issues, in Computer Science at
that time was how, it was called the Semantics of programming
Language. How do you describe the meaning of things in the language?
We knew about the grammar, but how do you get the meaning of the
language? And I had got this idea that a good way to define a meaning
is, if you know the meaning of little things, then you can use that to
make, build up, the meaning of larger things, and so on, and continue
on, but there was another approach, where you could start with the
meaning; you could start at the top, and sort of propagate that
downwards, into the meaning of the, into how the context affects the
words of the sentence.)

