## [35 - 1967: a turbulent year (Part 2)](http://webofstories.com/play/17094)

And so there was this combination between the inherited part of the
meaning and the synthesised part of the meaning. The part that comes
out of the, you know, from the small to large, and the part that comes
from the large to the small, and I said, you know, I can't decide
which of these two is better. And so Peter says to me, as we're
walking in this park, he says: well why don't you do both? And I said,
well, this is obviously ridiculous. You can't, you know, it; will be
circular, if you're trying to go down, and describe the meaning of the
bottom in terms of the top, and you're trying to describe the meaning
of the top in terms of the bottom, you get into a loop. It makes no
sense. But after I was arguing to him about this, for about ten
minutes, I realized I was shouting, because it occurred to me that he
was absolutely right, you know, that you could do both, as long as you
were careful that the way, that the aspects of the meaning you were
defining from the top, wouldn't depend on the ones that were coming
up. So the meaning has different parts to it. And so this led to a
research, a sub-field of Computer Science, called Attribute
Grammar. And the idea came while I was on this lecture tour in
February. But I had- I get back home, I have absolutely no time to
work on Attribute Grammars, because I'm supposed to write "The Art of
Computer Programming" in all my spare time, and I have students and
classes to teach, and everything else, and kids to take care of, et
cetera, now I'm a father. Okay. Now, meanwhile, I had also been
thinking of another thing in Mathematics, called the Word Problem, and
here the question is, if you had two mathematical expressions, can you
prove that there's a way to transform one into the other? And I had
stumbled across a way to solve this problem that's now known as the
Knuth-Bendix Algorithm. Peter Bendix was a student in my class, at
Caltech, who worked out the computer program for it for his term
paper. And because of some work I had been doing, these ideas came
together and so I also, in 1967, besides these obligations of stuff to
do, I had these brand new ideas that were just waiting to be
explored. The Knuth-Bendix Algorithm, type of work, and the Attribute
Grammar type of work. But no time to work on, so it's the busiest year
of my life. And I'm editing journals. I was editor of 12 technical
journals at the time. I was getting papers to referee, and, you know,
I was taking that job conscientiously. The way I was operating, when I
was at Caltech would be, you know, well, okay, the kids, if, I'd take
care of the kids, you know, change the diapers, and so on, then they
go to bed, if they wake up and cry, I put in my ear plugs, this is my
time to do my "Art of Computer programming" writing. I watch TV, old
movies on television, while I'm writing chapters for the "Art of
Computer programming". I get to school, do my editorial work, send out
papers to be reviewed, write to the authors of papers. Every morning,
I would figure out, what am I going to accomplish this day? And I'd
stay up until I finished it. You know, I was used to all-nighters from
high school, well I started to, you know, to work every day until I
had finished what I had set myself to do that day.)

