## [36 - 1967: a turbulent year (Part 3)](http://webofstories.com/play/17095)

So not too surprisingly, I suddenly came down with a bleeding ulcer,
and I was, you know, I was in the hospital. So I had all these other
things going on, no time to do the research that was coming up, and
then it turns out that my body rebelled. And the doctor showed me a
book of his that described what you might call the Type A Personality,
which described me to a T, and said, you know what? Don, you just
can't live this way, it's not sustainable. He was a wonderful doctor,
he let me read his own textbooks, didn't, you know, didn't just say,
doctor knows best, listen to me. He let me understand my condition,
and I got shots. He gave me shots to restore the iron that I'd lost
from bleeding, some more medication, told me to change my lifestyle,
only do this much. So I resigned from all my editorial duties. You
know, I wrote to my publisher with a black frame around the letter,
saying, I'm sorry, I know you wanted me to finish Volume Two this
year, but I'm in the hospital; I can't finish it, you know, I'm doing
my best, and I'll continue working. The day that this ulcer occurred,
I can tell you exactly where I was in Volume Two, because if you look
in the index to Volume Two, there's an index entry called Brute Force,
and I was trying to solve an exercise by Brute Force, at the time, and
I just put that there as a reminder, so I can know exactly where I was
at the time when this low point occurred. But then when I realized
that I was doing too much, and I started, and I could still, you know,
change my lifestyle and learn about the concept of mañana, and so on,
Doctor allowed me to go to Copenhagen and give my lectures
there. These were lectures about yet another idea, about syntax and
semantics of programming languages, and it was to an international
summer school being held in Copenhagen. I hadn't prepared the lectures
in advance, but I sort of knew what I wanted to talk about. And so I
had a week, I got there a week early, so that I could prepare my
lectures to be given the next week. And in Copenhagen they have these
wonderful forests, and so I went and sat under a tree, and started
planning my lecture. Well, then it turned out that the other lecturer
for the first week, Niklaus Wirth, had called up, and he had been on a
round-the-world trip, and he had caught dysentery in India, and wasn't
able to lecture, so they moved up my lectures to the first week, from
the second week, so I had only, I can only be sort of a day ahead of
my lecture. On Monday I could prepare Tuesday's lecture, and so on,
and go back to the forest and figure out what I'm going to say on
Wednesday. And those lectures were presenting original material, that
I had, you know, that hadn't been done before. And I was recovering
from ulcers, but I was taking it easy, I was trying to, you know, do
this all relaxing and so on, and I actually enjoyed being in the
forest under the trees, because it was a nice way to do research. And
that all worked out, the students were helpful, and helped me solve
some of the problems that came up in that day, and so that worked
out. Then I went to Oxford, for a conference, where I presented my
theorems about the Knuth-Bendix Algorithm, and I was able to write
that paper on the plane, for, during the second week of when I was at
Copenhagen, and on a trip to France, I had a couple of days to think
about attribute grammars. So this was 1967, and it was the most
creative time in my life, in the sense that three ideas that I had
that turned out to be important in the field of Computer Science, the,
certainly the attribute grammars and the Knuth-Bendix Algorithm, plus
the third idea about top-down syntax analysis, which is less
important, but still not bad, all came out that year, and I had to do
them all by stealing a few minutes of time here and there, from the
problems that I was really supposed to be working on, which is my
family, my book, my teaching. And so I've always wondered whether or
not this is, you know, would I have been so creative if I hadn't been
under such strain? If I'm designing a Research Institute, would the
ideal design be something where you have babies screaming, and people
are sleep-deprived, and you know, and are bombarded with
responsibilities, and then they would produce better research? Or
where they, you know, have a luxurious setup with comfortable
surroundings and so on? You know, you read about like Stravinsky's
conditions, when he was composing his great music, and, you know, he
was in some garret in terrible circumstances. Why is it that the year
1967 was the year when I had so many ideas? Maybe it was just that the
time was right for them. You know, you can't go back and change
history.)

