## [37 - A new field: analysis of algorithms](http://webofstories.com/play/17096)

In the Fall of '67 there was a conference in Santa Barbara of
mathematicians, and, and I, that's how I remember meeting, I think
also that, wasn't that the year when there was a conference in Chapel
Hill in the Spring too, of mathematicians. So, I, I was meeting a lot
of people that stimulated me and we had interesting problems to talk
about between each other, but when I got to the conference at Santa
Barbara, I realized that this was going to be my only chance to do
research, so I sat out the conference. I didn't go to any of the
lectures. I just sat on the beach and wrote my paper about attribute
grammars at that conference. But I went to the meals, and I
particularly remember somebody at that conference asking me what do I
do, and I was just deciding, you know, I'm going to become a computer
scientist instead of being in the math department. And so I said,
well, I'm going to- I think I'm going to be a computer scientist. And
so he said- well what, are you a numerical analyst? And I said no, not
really, so he, he says, ah, artificial intelligence, and I said- no,
not artificial intelligence either. Then he said- well, then you must
be in programming languages, and in other words, compiler is what I
had been asked to write a book about, and in fact, at that time
computer science was considered to consist of three things, numerical
analysis plus artificial intelligence plus programming languages. And,
and Stanford's department also was sort of organized along those three
lines. There were three qualifying exams and things like that. But I
said, well, you know, I've done a lot of research in programming
languages, and I've been editor of the programming language department
for journals, but, but my main interest is different. And so I
realized I didn't have a name for what my main interest was. And what
is, what was my main interest? Well, see, as I'm, by this time, I'd
written 3,000 pages of "The Art of Computer Programming" and typed
part of it, and published, and almost ready to publish, you know,
reading the galley proofs or part of it. And, and it turned out that
what I, what I found was that we wanted the mathematical basis for
understanding the quality of computer methods. We wanted to know how
good a method was, whether it's twice as good as another one or
whether, you know, some quantity of things, you know, not just
qualitative of, yes, better, but how much better, some, some way to
add quantity to this. And so I, so I used that as the underlying
unifying theme of my books, is to find these quantitative, descriptive
ways of judging the merits of a computer method, and, but I didn't
have a name for it, and, and at this conference at Santa Barbara I
realized that if I'm going to, if I have to explain to somebody else
what is, what is my field, I'm going to have to have a name for the
field, so I, so I made up a name for the field. I decided to call it
analysis of algorithms, and I figured, okay, you know, I'm writing a
book. I could use that to explain what an analysis of an algorithm
is. I, I talked to my publisher and I said, let's change the title of
my book. Instead of calling it "The Art of Computer Programming",
let's call it "The Analysis of Algorithms". Well, that didn't sell
with their, with their focus group, but, but I decided anyway that
would be, that would really be my career, to be, to focus mostly on
the analysis of algorithms, meaning the quantitative study of how good
an algorithm or computer method is. And I used that as when I was
asked to give a lecture at the International Congress of, of, what's
it called, of Information Processing Societies in, in 1971. My title
was the Analysis of Algorithms, and I also was asked to speak at a
mathematical, International Mathematical Conference in 1970 in France,
and my title there was Mathematical Analysis of Algorithms. So, I was
trying to promote this term as a, as a buzzword so that somebody, so
that somebody would understand what it is that I do, or that I like,
that I hope to do. And, and I'm glad to say that after, after ten
years or so, I mean in the late '70s, it started to show up as a
category in the reviewing journals and there were books coming out
called "Analysis of Algorithms". In fact, even though I, you know, my
publishers didn't like that title, there's, there are quite a few
books now that, that have that title in them. And, and so, but I got
to name the, the area that I work in, but if anybody asked me what
does it really mean, I would just say, well, it means whatever I'm
interested in, you know, so I could change it for the first few years
to, to suit myself.)

