## [38 - The Art of Computer Programming: underestimating the size of the book](http://webofstories.com/play/17097)

I had the Table of Contents sketched out, the 12 chapters, from the
first day, and I started filling in, chapter by chapter, and writing,
and writing more material, and Computer Science is growing, and I, it
turned out I'm very bad, not only at estimating how long it's going to
take to do a job, but also I wasn't very, at all good at estimating
how large a book I was writing. I looked at my handwritten; I, my
manuscript was all written out in hand, and I looked at my
handwritten- you know, and my letters seemed a lot bigger than the
letters in books, and I'd looked at books, and I've certainly read a
lot of books, and so it seemed to me that what I had written would be
a fairly reasonable sized book. In fact I had, I got to the end of
chapter 12, and after chapter 12, I think it was 64, '65, of this
handwritten draft, and I had 3,000 pages. I had accumulated 3,000
handwritten pages. Which I still have the manuscript. And while I was
working on these 3,000 pages, I had written to Addison-Wesley saying,
saying, they said, how's it going? I said, oh yeah, I'm writing, stuff
is flowing, do you mind if I, you know, if I make it fairly complete,
I find these other materials? They said, go right ahead. So I
accumulated 3,000 pages, and then I took it to a type- to my
typewriter, and started typing. Now, I typed up chapter one, which was
400 pages of typescript, or something like that, manuscript, that's
double-spaced. Incidentally, I got myself a, an IBM Selectric
typewriter. This was very new at the time. I think they said, they
told me later that I was the first private individual in California to
buy one, instead of a company buying one. This was the typewriter that
had a little ball, that would rotate and strike the page, and, but the
important thing to me was the touch was much better than any other
typewriter I had ever felt. When you hit, when you struck a key on the
Selectric typewriter, it would transmit a signal, saying to the ball,
to go this way, but you could strike several keys ahead, and the
machine, internally, would buffer this, and remember where the keys
that you had done, and then they would be sent to the ball, you know,
you type t h e real fast, and you can get to the e even before the t
has finished printing, but the, it's like, it was designed so that you
could do that. So I could type really, I mean like the first time I
saw a Selectric typewriter in an IBM exhibit, I typed, you know- now
is the time for all men, good men, to come to the aid of the party,
faster than I had ever typed anything before. I looked at it; it came
out perfect. And so I said, I've got to have one of these typewriters,
and so I bought myself a Selectric typewriter, and I had a, and I used
it to type my thesis, at Caltech, and I had, I had been a good, I had
been, a, you know, a keyboard person, I'd been playing piano for a
long time, and I learned machine shorthand the way court reporters do,
and so I was, I had played a lot with, you know, a saxophone player
and things like this, so this was just another, typewriter. I could
use this very well, and so I started typing it, and I typed up my
chapter one of the 12 chapters, and sent it to Addison-Wesley, saying,
here is, you know, here is the first chapter of my book. And then I
got a letter from a person; he was the person who, he was the person
who actually had been the first editor who came to talk to me in 1962,
but this was 1966, I think, by the time I had gotten to this point
3,000 pages, plus typing the chapter. And so now I heard again from
this same guy, but he had been promoted three levels, in the company
meanwhile, so now he was way up, and he was saying, what's going on
here? You've got this book. Don, do you realize that your book is
going to be more than 2,000 pages? You know, and, what? I thought I
had a six or 700-page book. I said, you know, I thought, you know, I
know, I've read books for years. How can you tell me that this book,
that this book is going to be so long? So I went back to "Thomas's
Calculus", the original book that I had loved in Freshman in college,
and I typed out, you know, they said, Don, you know, I had felt five
pages of my typing would go into one page of book, but they said, no,
no, it was one and a half to one. And I couldn't believe it, so I took
"Thomas's Calculus", and I typed out two pages, of "Thomas's Calculus"
on my typewriter. Sure enough, three pages of typescript went into
two. So here I had a book that was more than three times as big as I,
you know, so I thought. No wonder it had taken me this long to finish
the darn thing. But then you know, they said, well we, nobody will be
able to afford this book, you know, all publishers have their horror
stories about the professor who sends them a manuscript, you know, ten
volumes about the history of the egg, or something like this, you
know, and it just lays a big egg. And so how are they going to get
around this problem?)

