## [39 - Deciding what to do with the book and the success of the first edition](http://webofstories.com/play/17098)

I fly to Massachusetts, and we have discussions about what are we
going to do? And so they say, well, maybe we can think of
something. Meanwhile, they showed the chapter to a few people, and the
people liked it, so they weren't so wary about it, but they said, you
know, but I, my editor at the time, Norm Stanton, I saw, I happened to
notice at lunch, the notes that he had written to himself, and said,
terrific cost bind, and things like this. You know, I mean he was
trying to break the news to me gently, but what was I going to do? And
you know, he was suggesting, they were suggesting, okay, you leave out
this, you leave out this, you know, don't give the answers to the
exercises. Instead of having professional illustrations, they'll just
use the illustrations that I had put in my manuscript. They said they
were charming, and things like this. Well, I thought they stunk. And
I, you know, and I said, no, I like Addison-Wesley because the quality
of the books has been so superb; the illustrations have been top of
the line. This is the reason I signed with you guys. And my editor
said to me afterwards, boy, you were courageous in there, standing up
to the president of the company, and all this. So they decided, well,
maybe we'll publish it as three volumes, and then they changed their
mind again, they decided to publish it in seven volumes. So we set up
a plan to publish "The Art of Computer Programming" in seven
volumes. And that plan is still officially there, but three volumes
have been in print now for more than 30 years, and I'm working on
volume four. Now, the first, but the reason is because the subject-
Computer Science didn't stop there, so the 3,000 pages that I had
written described the state of Computer Science in 1965. Well, a few
things have been learned since 1965, so we've got to include those
too. Well, the book went through several other stages. First they
said, you shouldn't put in the answers to the exercises, we'll publish
them separately, as a, you know, some people can order them or get
them as a paperback. And we'll reproduce them just from the
typescript. But after reviewers started reading the book, they said,
no, it's actually be better to typeset those answers and put, include
them in the book, and so when, in 1968, when the first edition really
came out, it was an expensive book, more than all the other books in
Computer Science, about twice, I mean it cost, I think $32 or
something for Volume One. I forget what the price was; I could look it
up, while other books were selling for $10, or something like
that. And yet, in the first year, it was adopted as a textbook by more
than 50 universities, and you know, so we came out with another
printing shortly after, and it became unbelievably successful,
although it was not an easy read, it was still, you know, it proved
that there was a need for a book of this kind, in the area. So that's
the beginning of "The Art of Computer Programming". And in 1968, in
January, is when I got my first copies of that book, the, since then,
I believe it's something like three or 400,000 copies of Volume One
have sold in English, and more than that in other languages, so I
couldn't believe how successful that was going to be. But if I had,
you know, if I had known in 1962 that I was writing such a big book,
and that I would still be working on it when I'm 68 years old, I
would, I would certainly have not said that I would go ahead with
this. I thought that I was going to finish it before my son was born
in 1965.)

