## [4 - My parents’ finances](http://webofstories.com/play/17063)

I guess I can say a little bit more about my parents’ finances. Of
course **they were married during the Depression**, and my dad’s first
job, when he came to Milwaukee, they decided after a year, that they
should cut his salary by $5 a month, and they told him that he would
learn thrift, and he would, you know, this would be good for him, to,
and of course the church was always having trouble with fundraising,
but **our family didn’t have an automobile till 1951**, which is when I
was in Seventh Grade. 

We took our first, you know, auto trip at that
time, to my mother’s family in Ohio. Before that we had gone once or
twice a year by train, and rarely would relatives from Illinois or
Ohio be able to come to visit us. 

We, my dad would always ride his
bicycle to work, and my mother, well, **Milwaukee had good public
transportation, and in fact it was a very safe city**; completely
different from now, when, because of drugs and things now, but when I
was growing up, I could, I would always ride the streetcar downtown at
all hours of the day and night. Now you take your life in your hands
doing this. You know, no parent would let their child do any of the
things that we were doing. 

I was, once I took the streetcar; I don’t
know how old I was, but I think it was, you know, maybe Fourth or
Fifth Grade, and I took the streetcar downtown, and **went to the public
library**, and I started reading books, and I didn’t know that the
library hours, that the library was closing, and the lights went off,
so I went over to a window, where I could sit, and I kept reading, and
finally the people, you know, and my parents didn’t, were wondering
what happened to me, why didn’t I come home? 

But somebody at the
library found me, you know, just in the stacks, reading the books, and
but you know, still they wouldn’t worry too much about letting kids go
around the city, and so my mother would take the streetcar downtown to
her work, and we never thought of having an automobile until they
could finally afford something from the little jobs that my dad would
take outside of his teaching experience. 

He would; he and his friends
got together and they **invested in the stock market, what they called
penny stocks**. You could buy stocks in various mining companies. He met
a man at the, I think it was at a, what do you call it? A bathhouse?
Or, you know, a public bath, where you can go for a hot bath, and met
a man there who introduced him to some people from Colorado who were
into mining and so then they decided they were going to make some
money this way.

Well, I inherited all these stock certificates now,
which make **great wallpaper**, but they, you know; they’re **completely
useless**. One of the stocks, however, did well. It was called Silver
Bell Mine, and we’ve, eventually we went out to Colorado, visited the
place, and saw the, you know, we, the stock was sold to Union Oil
eventually, and made a little bit of money on that. So, and **my parents
bought stock in Walt Disney**, and that kept doubling and
multiplying. 

So by working hard and saving money, throughout my mom’s
life; she died at almost age 90, and she never retired, she stayed
working in real estate, even in her late 80s they had an office for
her downtown, and she could come in, maybe three days a week, and, but
putting money in the bank, and being a generous person, and
contributing to charity and so on, but **she had accumulated an estate
of more than $1 million**, by the time that she died. And **this surprised
everybody** including her.

But they were, my dad was the bookkeeper for
the high school, and so he took some classes in accounting, and so he
spent a lot of his time actually filling out what we’d call
spreadsheets now. And he’d stay keeping track of little transactions
with stocks. The, so, I think it’s interesting to see that the way
**they could, just by being responsible citizens, make a good life for
themselves**, the way the times were in our country at that period. And
this idea of personal responsibility was something I always took for
granted, because I got it from my parents. So it never occurred to me
that there was any other way to live.

