## [40 - Writing fiction: Surreal Numbers (Part 1)](http://webofstories.com/play/17099)

This is, is a unique event in my life. It took place in early '70s. I
was, I had met John Conway, probably, certainly one of the greatest
living mathematicians. I had met him on a trip to the University of
Calgary, in '71, and we had lunch, and he scribbled on a napkin a new
theory that he came up with, which I thought was really terrific, and
well, it's a purely mathematical theory about a new way to define
numbers, not only the integer numbers and the fractional numbers, but
also infinite numbers and square root of infinity, and infinity to the
infinity, and infinity to the square root of infinity, and one over
infinity, and makes sense of all these numbers. So a year later I was
on sabbatical in Norway, and a thought came to me in the middle of the
night, wow, this theory is so beautiful it would be interesting to
tell the story, to write a book that where the characters in the book
discover Conway's theory, they find his rules, on a stone tablet, and
they decipher the tablet, and they develop all the consequences of
this tablet, so that they can prove things about infinity, and so on,
by themselves. The point being that this would be a way to teach how
to do research, that the students could, you know, not only learn what
other people had done, but how to do new things in Mathematics
themselves. And it could be taught, and it could be presented in the
form of a story, with characters discovering these things, by
themselves. And so I thought, this would really be a cool book to
have, and it would supplement, it could be used as a supplement; I was
thinking of it as actually high school teachers could recommend it to
some of their students, so that students could see the way Mathematics
is discovered. So, I got the idea of calling these numbers surreal
numbers. You have to know that real numbers had, is what we call our
numbers that have infinitely many decimal places, and so surreal
numbers are even more so, because they, there are surreal numbers
between the real numbers. And this was Conway's system, and I thought,
so I had this title, "Surreal Numbers", and I had the idea that a
theory could be developed by characters in a book. And I woke Jill up,
and said- Jill, you know how I've been working on "The Art of Computer
Programming" for many years, and I'm still not anywhere near being
done with it? Well, I just thought of another book that has to be
written, what do you think? And I said I thought I could write this
one in a week, and really a week, because it would be short. And so,
you know, she said- okay, Don, go for it. This is your year on
sabbatical, we're in Norway, why not actually take your week, and go
do this project, you know, concentrate on that, and then, you know,
then you'll be happy, and we'll live happily ever after.)

