## [41 - Writing fiction: Surreal Numbers (Part 2)](http://webofstories.com/play/17100)

So we made the plans. I decided I would rent a hotel room for a week
in downtown Oslo, near where Ibsen lived, so that I could maybe get
some of the vibes from his soul. And we planned that she would come
and visit me a couple of times during that week, and we could have a
little affair in a hotel room. We'd never; we'd always wondered what
that would be like. And so I could be an author for a week, and then,
you know, and we could have this thing, fool the people in the hotel
that here was this woman visiting me to, you know, she's sneaking. So
this was what happened, and during the next few weeks I started, you
know, I sort of wrote the first page of this novel in my mind, several
times, and I had, whenever I was riding a bus or something, I would
think of another sentence, so I check into the hotel in January, and
it was probably the greatest week in my life. As I said, the time,
there was kind of like a muse there, dictating this book to me, and
this was, I stayed in a mission hotel, it's a cheap hotel run by
strict, by volunteers of the Norwegian Church, they probably were, but
anyway we had our affair. And students from America were staying at
this hotel, from St Olaf University, in Minnesota, and every morning,
in Norway, at the hotels, we have a Norwegian breakfast, which is a
huge spread, where you have, it's not like kippers in England, but
it's, but we have certainly herring, and many other, you know, eggs,
and all kinds of other things, and so I spent an hour every morning
eating a very leisurely Norwegian breakfast, which was enough to last
me till dinner time, and listening to all the American students
talking to each other, and what they're saying to each other, and
picking up the, especially, you know, I hadn't heard American English
spoken for a long time. We'd been living in Norway for several months,
for six or seven months by this time. And so I could remember some of
the dialect, and some of the expressions, and my novelette is told in
dialog form, so it was important for me to, you know, to have a sort
of authentic accent to these characters. So I listened to what the
students were saying, and I, you know, ate a lot, and then I would go
to my room, and I would start writing the book. And the book is only
really, it's something like opera, where opera, you know, has a good
music, with a little bit of a plot, and my book was good Mathematics
with a little bit of a plot. And so I was developing the Mathematics
myself. I had remembered that Conway had written down his stuff on a
napkin; I had lost the napkin, so I tried to remember what he'd told
me a year ago, and I tried to reconstruct it as the characters in my
book were discovering the mathematics for themselves. I was
discovering the Mathematics from the same ground rules as they were
under, and if I would make a mistake, you know, I would think of
something that didn't work, the characters in my book would also then
make the same mistake, and then they would recover from it the way I
had done. So I, so the book was also an authentic presentation of
mathematical research, in this way, as I'm writing it. And so I would
start up, and I would end up, in the morning I would, well I usually
had something to go on from the previous day. The first day I had been
thinking about the first page of the book for some months, so I was
ready to start the first page, and I only had to pause when I got to
page two, I sort of could dictate page one. And then I would, you
know, so I'd start writing, and then I would try to do some more Math,
and then I would get stuck. And I would run into a block. There was
nothing to, you know, which way to go next? What to do next? And so
then I would go outside, and walk around in the streets of Oslo, and
it was a wonderful snow free month at that time, and so it wasn't too
slippery to walk on the streets in January, and you know, so about an
hour, an hour and a half, just meandering around my hotel in downtown,
the solution to the problem would occur to me, and I'd get back to my
room, write it up, and you know, then have a leisurely supper in the
evening, Norwegian style, and then back to my room and do some, do a
little bit more writing, you know, get ready to, and then as I said, I
couldn't turn the light out because I had to write; I knew what the
next day's first few sentences would be, before I could go to sleep. I
was really into this book at the time, as you can imagine.)

