## [42 - Writing fiction: Surreal Numbers (Part 3)](http://webofstories.com/play/17101)

I predicted that it would take me a week to do this book, well, after
six days I finished the last chapter, and on the seventh day I
rested. And it was very interesting. On the sixth day, actually, was
one of the days my wife came to visit me, and we went out to see a
movie, it was called "Butterflies are Free", with Goldie Hawn, I
remember, and then afterwards we walked around the King's Palace in
Oslo, and there was a wonderful hoar frost on the trees, and there's
these magnificent trees in the Palace grounds in Oslo, and I was just
entranced, looking up and seeing the snow-covered tree branches,
against the dark blue sky. I'm just telling you this was such a week
for me, that, you know, having this inspiration all the time, of
writing the book, and then getting; I was in the second last chapter
at this time, and going back to my room, I would finish the last
chapter, but I'm looking up at the sky, and just seeing these patterns
of these ice-covered branches, and it's one of the great moments of my
whole life, seeing this, and Jill was on her way back home to our
apartment. Then I went back and finished the last chapter, and that
was the sixth day, and on the seventh day I rested, but on the seventh
day, I tried to write a letter, to my secretary, Phyllis, who was
going to type up the manuscript, telling her, you know, how to do
it. And I would start a sentence, and I would get to the middle of the
sentence, and I couldn't finish the sentence. I'd been writing
fluently for six days, and then I got to the end, and the book was
done, and my writing was done. I couldn't figure out how to write a
letter to Phyllis. Finally I got the letter done, and we sent the
manuscript off to her, you know, it's all handwritten. She typed it up
and sent it back to me a few months later, and I sent the manuscript
to John Conway in Cambridge, England, where he was at the college
there. Well, he politely pointed out that I had gotten one of his two
rules wrong, that the characters in my book had actually been working
on a different system, not the one, you know, his system was actually
nicer than the one that I had done. Well, okay, not so bad. We came
and visited him in England. We went to Cambridge; stayed at his house
a few days, at Easter time, and I learned about what I should have
said, you know, and when I went back then to Norway, I took another
week, and this time, not in Oslo, but in a remote valley one of the
valleys that had actually, during the time of the Black Death, had
lost all of its population, and there was a little rest home there,
called Solheimen, where a lot of people came to spend a week in
summertime, and every one spoke Norwegian there. We ate at common
tables, and I would do my best, by that time, to speak to them in
Norwegian, but then, most of the time I went through the whole book,
and rewrote it with the rules that Conway said I should have used from
the beginning, and it came out better. And I also had some other
comments from a few other readers, who had suggested, you know, like
my wife was a, there were some romantic scenes, and my wife was a
consultant on those. And so on. So I took some readers' comments in,
and then another week's work, and then I had this book finished,
"Surreal Numbers". It's a completely different part of my personality
from the computer books. This turned out to be kind of a litmus test
for whether or not somebody is a Mathematician or a Computer
Scientist. Some people think they're the same, and some people, you
know, anyway, I know they're different, because the Mathematicians
will look at "Surreal Numbers" and think that it's really interesting,
and the Computer Scientists will look at it and say, this is my
greatest mistake, you know, why did I waste time on this project?
Well, I just got word from the publisher that they want to do the 17th
printing of "Surreal Numbers". I'm supposed to send them the
corrections, you know, by next week. And it's been translated into
eight or nine languages, so there are some Mathematicians in the world
who appreciated this little book. It's about 80, 90 pages, I think,
of, small pages, but it turned out to be a little thing that you know,
I felt was dictated to me. I will never be able to do anything else
like it, but it was a great experience while it lasted.
 
Have you ever had the urge to do another novel? 
 
No, but you know, while I was writing it, you know, I was, like my
eyes were open, and like everything; I'm walking on the streets of
Oslo, and I'm seeing the birds, and I'm hearing sounds, and I'm, you
know, aware of the world, in a way, because I'm writing something that
means I'm going to be writing, you know, about what my characters are
saying, and so I'm, that automatically makes me much more receptive to
the world, so that was another part of this experience, and I can see
why a writer, you know, can get a thrill from that, because it
sharpens your own perceptions as you're facing the task of trying to
put something into prose. Yeah. But no, I mean I, you know, maybe I'll
wake up in the middle of the night some time with, you know, but I
think, I've always thought of it as sort of a once in a lifetime
thing, and as I say, some people say it's my great mistake too.)

