## [43 - The emergence of computer science as an academic subject (Part 1)](http://webofstories.com/play/17102)

When I was writing the first volume, I was at Caltech, and I was
advancing in the Math Department, I was still, you know, I was a
Mathematician, and in the early 60s, as I said, I never would have
believed that computer science, you know, under any name, that there
would be an academic discipline of this sort. However, at Stanford
George Forsythe had come over in the late 50s to Stanford, and he had,
and a very few other people had a vision, that there was something
here that was really ought to be a part of every university's
curriculum, and it became known as computer science, and he, I
consider him the Father of computer science, and a wonderful man, he
figured out a way to bring people to Stanford, to build the
department, and he started, he scrounged around the whole
world. Everybody that he felt would be the best in what he saw as this
emerging field, he would invite them to Stanford, and say, please come
and join us here. And so he recruited me. And operated on a
shoestring. He was able to; he had the support of Provost Al Bowker,
who later became famous for many other things, including Chancellor of
Berkeley, but Al Bowker was in Stanford Administration and very
supportive of Forsythe's ideas and giving him strategy on how to
proceed. And so he was able to, even though there was no funding for
this, he was able to get somebody to be part time, here, in Math,
somebody is part time in Electrical Engineering, somebody part time in
SLAC, and more and more people, John McCarthy coming, so that he had
the largest concentration of good Computer Scientists anywhere during
the 1960s. And next week our Department is celebrating its 40th
anniversary, and we're going to be reminiscing about this time, it's
actually the 41st anniversary, because the Department began in
1965. And it was, they had, I don't know, half a dozen students, or
ten students at the very beginning, and then quite a few later on, but
it was, it was, you know, a pioneer in this area of doing
computing. Now, I learned about the connection between computing and
Mathematics. I said first I studied grammar, and I liked the idea that
the grammar of a computer language could be studied with mathematical
tools, and I got into correspondence with Bob Floyd, who at the time
was in Massachusetts, and I met him in the summer of 62, after I had
written another compiler. I wrote a compiler for Univac Corporation,
and met Bob in the fall of 1962, actually, and he introduced me to a
brand new thing- that you could actually prove things about computer
programs. You could not only fiddle with a program until it worked,
you could develop a theory so that you would know that the program
would work. This was a revelation. I'd never brought my mathematical
side and my computer side together. Computer side, I just was an
Engineer, fiddling. So Bob said, no Don, look at this. You can
actually be sure that your computer program is working, if you look at
it the right way. This was a great revelation to me, so I got very, I
got friendly with Bob, I visited him in Massachusetts, he visited me
in California, and I began to see that maybe there was a possibility
for an academic subject of Computing. Forsythe invited me up to
Stanford; my sister-in-law was living in San Francisco at the time, so
it was a convenient time for us to come up and take a look at the
campus, which was of course beautiful, and George said- you know,
okay, Don, join us. Oh, I said- no, no, no. I'm writing this book, and
I'm going to finish and my, you know, my son's going to be born. We've
got to have some stability. But I knew that at some point in my life
I'd have to make a decision, where was going to be my permanent home,
instead of just, you know- at this time I'm an Assistant
Professor. Caltech actually promoted me to Associate Professor after
two or three years, and I should say something about tenure, I
guess. About that time there was a story in the "Los Angeles Times",
that students at UCLA were unhappy because a professor at UCLA hadn't
gotten tenure, and I'd never heard of the word tenure before, so I
want to Marshall Hall, I said, Marshall, what is this word, tenure?
What does it mean, that she didn't get tenure? And he said- well Don,
remember when you got your appointment form from Caltech last year,
where it said you're appointed Associate professor, you know? And I
said- yeah? Well there's a line on there that says, the ending date
for your appointment, remember that that line was blank? And I said-
yes. Well, he says, that's tenure. You know, your job goes on. Well
I'd never heard of the concept before, so I had tenure before I knew
it existed, and I'm glad, because a lot of students now are so worried
about not getting tenure, that it interferes with their professional
development, you know, they're spending more time strategizing about
how to get tenure than about how to do good science.)

