## [44 - The emergence of computer science as an academic subject (Part 2)](http://webofstories.com/play/17103)

There I was at Caltech, but I knew that sometime, that I had to make a
decision, what shall I do for a permanent position? Because I had
never expected I would stay all my life at one place, but I didn't
like to move, so I knew there was going to be a time when I should
move, and to the place where I would stay the rest of my life. So
where should this be? My first offer for full professorship was to
Norman, Oklahoma, and then I was offered, that was at '65, or so, and
then I got an offer to go to Chapel Hill, North Carolina, but these
were unsolicited offers. I started to wonder where I should go, and of
course I knew about Forsythe's enterprise here, so I wrote to Bob
Floyd, who was my best friend in Computer Science, and said- Bob,
what's your assessment about the different parts of the world? And
wherever I go, I'd like to be your colleague, so the two of us could
go the same place. You know, where would you like to go, and I'll see
if it suits me too? So he wrote me this nice, long letter, you know,
telling about all the places in the world the way he ranked them, and
he put Stanford up at the top of his list, just as I had tentatively
put Stanford at the top of my list. And so he said, you know, if I
wanted to go to Stanford, the chances are he would like to do that
too. So this turned out to be kind of a package deal that when we were
negotiating with Stanford later, we'd say, well, you know, there
should be room for two of us, if you're going to make an offer for
one. But I started to search for a permanent home, and I got, and the
main four places that made, where we went through interviews and made
offers and so on, the main four places were Harvard, Berkeley,
Stanford and Caltech. And this was, as I say, taking place in the
middle 60s, in 1967, was when the main interviewing was going on, well
'66, yeah, about that time. The firm offers didn't come through until
'68. But during 1967 was when there was a lot of correspondence
happening. And so I could be a full professor at any of those four
places, and it was quite; each one was different. If I was a full
professor at Caltech, I would remain in the Math Department. I would
be a full professor of Mathematics there, and that would be my
career. If I went to Stanford, I would be a full professor of Computer
Science; also at Harvard and Berkeley. At Harvard they had almost
nobody in Computer Science, and you know, a very few students, very
few faculty. My role at Harvard would be to help them build it up. And
it was a case where well Caltech and Harvard, you see I knew that at
Caltech they wouldn't have a Department of Computer Science for a long
time, it was a very much uphill battle because this faculty at Caltech
is so strong in Physics and in Chemistry and Biology. The Physicists
don't see Computer Science as important, except for how it helps
Physics. Biologists the same way, how does it help Biology? They
didn't see that the computer scientists might have problems of their
own that, you know, that are interesting, not just as a service to
other disciplines. And for this reason it looked to me really unlikely
that Caltech would ever want to have a Department of Computer Science
the way Stanford did. Harvard, the same story; at Harvard they said
they wanted me to be a, you know, Professor of Applied Science, and
help them build up Computer Science, but I knew that if I went there,
I'd be spending most of my time arguing for Computer Science rather
then doing Computer Science. And I hated that. I'm not a politician; I
don't like confrontation. I don't like trying to persuade people of
things, but I like them to come to the conclusions themselves, so that
although Harvard was tempting, because I knew that it would be great
to have a spokesperson for Computer Science at, where you have some
clout there, and people listen to you, I wanted to do Computer Science
instead of arguing for it. I had seen a lot of cases where other
fields, the Operations Research was a special case in point, where
more than half of the papers in the early days of Operations Research
were arguing for Operations Research than just doing Operations
Research, just presenting the beauties of Operations Research, but
saying why we need Operations Research. Well, I wanted to have none of
that, so I didn't, you know, sneeze at the offer from Harvard, but I
decided, really that that wasn't going to be the life I wanted. I
also, then I had Berkeley and Stanford, and I felt all around
University of California, Berkeley was the best university in the
world from a total standpoint of all fields, and very attracted to the
idea of going there, but they didn't have much in Computer Science,
like Stanford did. Again, my role would have been to build, more to
build things up, and I could live on campus at Stanford. This was a
strong attraction to me, to be able to build a house like I have here
now, where I can walk or bicycle to the pool every day and not have to
worry about commuting. So I, you know, Stanford had already so many
good students, and so many good faculty, I could come here and be one
of the boys, and, well, men and women; one of the people, and so I
took Stanford as my top choice, just as my, my, now, on the other
hand, Stanford has standards, and I was pretty young, so why should
they appoint a full professor at this age? And fortunately Volume One
came out in print, just in the week when the faculty had to approve my
appointment. I mean the people in other departments on campus; the
Trustees and the other people who had to approve of an unusual
appointment to a young person for full professor, and the book came
out just in that week, when they needed, when that helped. So they
were all smiles, and I got my letter from Stanford saying, yes, you
can come here.)

