## [45 - A year doing National Service in Princeton](http://webofstories.com/play/17104)

But I didn't come to Stanford immediately. My first year at Stanford
was actually spent on leave of absence in Princeton, New Jersey. Now
this was the time of the Vietnam War, some of you might remember, and
great ferment on campuses, and I had been deferred from the draft
because of being a graduate student, at first, and because of being
married, and having bad eyesight, and so I was 4F for a while, and
then I, anyway, but I felt that I owed something to the United States
for providing me with the freedom to be able to study, and not have to
carry guns and defend my territory, so I thought it would be good to
give at least a year of National Service, so I said, well what could a
person with my skills do for the country? And the answer was, you
know, I was recruited into working for code-breaking, cryptanalysis,
where people like Marshall Hall, my advisor, had, and other people at
Caltech were prominent, because the Combinatorial Math that I was
doing was useful in making and breaking codes. So then I, so I went
there, and I worked not at the Princeton university, but at the
Institute for Defense Analyses, which had a building on the Princeton
campus, called von Neumann Hall, actually. And we, and I worked there
on classified work with some tremendously excellent colleagues, and
the way we did it there was that half of our time was supposed to be
doing pure Mathematical Research, and half of it was supposed to be
doing this classified work that was relevant to the code breaking, and
in our case we were, most of us were also especially good at computer
programming, so we would try to make computer programs that could help
in code breaking. The work there was secret; I still haven't been able
to tell my wife what I was doing that year. And although I met a lot
of great people that year, I found out that the secret life is not for
me. I'm the kind of person that likes to talk about what I'm doing,
and explain and teach, so I worked hard at helping that agency for a
year, but then I knew that I should really be an academic, and no more
do classified work after that time. And so I can't tell you much about
that period, except that the people that I worked with were super, and
I published also some papers that people that I worked with, and my
roommate there, Ed Bender, and I solved a famous problem in
combinatorics where we were able to take what's called plane
partitions and find a reason why the number of plane partitions of n
has an amazingly simple form. The plane partition is; you can
understand it like this. Suppose you have 100 sugar cubes, and you
want to put them into a box, and you pack it solid against one of the
corners of the box, how many ways are there to do that? And a man
named Percy McMahon, M C M A H O N had spent many years of his life
solving this problem, and the answer that he got was that there was a
fairly simple formula explaining how many ways there are to put n
sugar cubes into the corner of a box. But nobody knew a reason why it
should be so simple, and Ed Bender and I were roommates, and we spent
a lot of our free research time thinking about this problem, and lo
and behold we came up with a solution. And Ed and I, Ed is the person
who sort of most perfectly blends his research skills with mine, in
the sense that the two of us together, I never worked together with
any other person on my life where we were sort of such an ideal
team. That is, his strong points would complement my weak points, and
my weak points would complement, you know, his strong points, my
strong points would complement his weak points and vice versa, and we
could talk to each other at the same rates and understand each other
at the same rates, and so here we are in the same room, solving the
problem together, and we each are going to take the next step, and
we're getting somewhere. I never met anybody else who, where we were
so perfectly attuned this way. In fact, it's so- such a good match
that we're afraid to meet each other now, because we know that if we
get together we have a responsibility to the world to invent some new
idea, and that's too much of a responsibility, you know, it exhausts
us, so we haven't seen each other for years. But when we were doing
it, we were really hitting it off well. And so we solved this problem
about plane partitions during the time I was in Princeton.)

