## [46 - Moving to Stanford and wondering whether I'd made the right choice](http://webofstories.com/play/17105)

People would ask me; I'm in Princeton, and people would say, well Don,
where are you from? What should I say? I'm on leave from Stanford; my
employment at Stanford had officially started, although I was in
Princeton. The reason was it gives me legal ability to acquire the
lot, where this house is, before somebody else snatched the lot, so,
you know, I have, otherwise I don't get a desirable lot, so I'm
officially a Stanford Professor, but not getting any salary, because
I'm away at Princeton. And so they asked me where am I from? So I say,
I'm from Stanford. And they say, oh, isn't that where the students
just burned down the such-and-such a building? And I say, well, that
might be true, but I actually have never lived in Stanford, you know,
so I spent the year in Princeton, being away from Stanford, then I
finally came back here and oh, it's scary, because, you know, I knew
that I didn't, and I only wanted to move once in my life, and I
thought I had picked the best place to move, because, you know, good
library, good climate, you know, I could live on campus, and you know,
good students, you know, close to San Francisco. Sounds great, but
here I am, and I actually, you know, wonder, now I've put all my eggs
in one basket, so I remember you know, driving, the first day I'm
here, and we stop at a stop light over on Stanford Avenue, and I said-
oh my goodness, how many times in my life am I going to have to wait
for this stoplight? And I'm realising now that I don't have any
choices anymore. When you have options, when you have many different
places you could go, you can always say, oh, how great that's going to
be. But then you make a choice, and you've given up all the other
choices, and then you say, now, anything that goes wrong can be an
aggravation from this point on. And there were other things about
Stanford that I didn't know the answer to, but fortunately, you know,
all the answers that I really did learn, turned out to be nice, so
I've been very happy here. I came to Stanford then in the summer or
the late part of 1969, although officially I started in 1968, and I
think California made me pay taxes for that year, even though I was in
New Jersey.)

