## [47 - Designing the house in Stanford](http://webofstories.com/play/17106)

While we were in Princeton, every Sunday night, Jill and I would talk
about what was our dream house. In fact, our first date, when we, at
the library in Cleveland, we each, we started talking about our dream
house, and it turned out we both had the same dream house, so we both,
I mean that's one of the things that we were meant for each other, we
had thought of a bean-shaped house. Never got a bean-shaped house, but
both of us had been thinking about it, so anyway, we decided that we'd
spend every Sunday night, hour, two hours, making plans up for what
kind of a house we'd like to have when we move to Stanford. The kids
were in bed; we had two children by that time, John was born in '65
and Jenny in '66, so we made notes, and we finally had it was, I think
about every room, what we wanted to do, and we came back here, and
there are a lot of good architects in the area, and we thought- we'd
met a man named Jim O'Neill, who we liked very much, and he listened,
and he looked at our notes, and he didn't laugh at them, but he gently
pointed out that all of our plans were completely impractical, and you
couldn't build these things, and all these triangular corners would
just not work, that we had planned. And he had very good sense of
lighting, and how houses go together, so we, so he was a very good
listener, so he knew what we really wanted, rather than what we had
written in our plans. He was good at boiling these down into
reality. And so we started making plans. We were, you know, just
renting at the time, a house until we could finally build here, but we
had the lot already. Stanford has this wonderful idea that you can get
an 80-year lease from the university and live on campus, and the only
downside is that all your neighbours are Stanford professors, you
know, who are, tend to be a little kooky, but there we are. Now, one
of the big ideas we had is that we should have rooms that are not all
the same. On our honeymoon we had gone to visit baroque palaces, and
we had seen places where, you know, there are grand, there are rooms
that are large in scale, and rooms that are small, and so why should
you have all the rooms about the same size? And, you know, we went to
the, we went to Rome, and we saw Roman baths, and we said- oh we've
got to have a big bathroom, you know, bathrooms should be big. We
figured a bedroom should be small, intimate. So we decided, you know,
we said, let's have one big room for Jill to do her artwork, one big
room for me, to have a pipe organ. I can talk a little about pipe
organs later, if you ask me. But I was, by that time I had been
playing organ. I took organ lessons in Princeton, at Westminster Choir
College, while I was there. So it would be nice to, you know, have two
big rooms, and then small rooms, somehow, but mostly a variety, so
that you wouldn't have everything the same. Lots of other ideas about
how we could make sure that, you know, we could keep an eye on the
kids. We didn't want to have rooms where the kids could run around in
circles, because we knew that that's, you know, a danger, and so
various other plans. So we're talking to the architect, and he, and
one of our key ideas that we thought we had to have was a winding
staircase, a circular staircase. It's very romantic. You need a house
with a circular staircase. Well, as you'll notice being in this house,
we don't have a circular staircase, but that's one of the things that,
when Jim drew up various plans, and plans one through 12 all had
circular staircases, but he couldn't make the thing work. Finally we
decided, okay, he's got this other one, plan number 13, which is
basically what we have now, where we have the one, Jill's room on one
side of the house, where it gets the north light, my room on the other
side of the house. In between, where everybody's, you know, it's space
for everybody, an expandable place for children. We were hoping to
have more children, and a place where students could stay, various
things all put together, in the other part of the house. With the, now
he wasn't as good at the small spaces though, as the big. We didn't
get the small rooms that we wanted, so later on we actually built a
partition in our bedroom, so that it, to make it into two, visually
into two parts that are half as big. Still this is the basic idea of
the house. We knew it was going to be a house that we would live in
the rest of our lives, and we wanted it to be adaptable, for the
future, so for example it was a two-storey house; we didn't know if
one of us might become crippled for some reason, so we made sure that
there would be a place for an elevator, in case we wanted to install
an elevator if we needed it to get upstairs. And we could use it as a
dumbwaiter meanwhile, for clothing or something. And then the people,
you know, the builders came, and at the time the house cost almost
$100,000, which was considered way out of line. Now, of course, if you
can get a house in Palo Alto for less than $1 million, you consider
yourself very lucky, even a very small house. But at that time this
was considered a rather large house, and we had to, we didn't have
enough money in the bank to pay for everything, but we, so we didn't
put in the wood panelling until a year later, and by that time the
price of wood had doubled. And we didn't put in the organ until four
or five years later. If you look in my book, in the index to Volume
Three, you'll see, Royalties, comma, Use of, and that refers you to a
page where there's a picture of organ pipes. And, you know, the fact
that my book had been selling well, meant that I got about a dollar
for every copy that people bought, and, you know, that book has been
amazing. It still sells more than ten copies a day, every day of the
year.)

