## [48 - Volume Three of The Art of Computer Programming](http://webofstories.com/play/17107)

Volume Three is this, is this book about, about sorting and searching,
a field that was, that was changing greatly at the time I was making
the final version of that. So, I'm thinking about, I'm thinking about
sorting and searching as I'm in Princeton. You know, I've finished
Volume Two and I'm ready to come to Stanford, and, and, but, but I'm
getting new ideas about sorting all the time because the field is
changing. So, after I arrive at Stanford, I have to teach courses and
start brand new things that I've never done before, so it took a
while, and I wasn't able to finish Volume Three until I was in Norway
in 1972. That was my sabbatical year. It wasn't really a sabbatical
year. I called it a sabbatical year, but it's, it's a leave of
absence. I'd been three years at Stanford, and I, I thought, oh, it
would be great, professors are supposed to get six years and then a
sabbatical, and then six years and a sabbatical. I thought, maybe I'll
go on a four year cycle. I'll go three years, a leave of absence, then
three years and a sabbatical. That was okay with Stanford's rules. And
so, I got an offer from the University of Norway to spend a year there
as a guest professor and I didn't need financial support from
Stanford, so I could, so I could do that, run a leave of absence
without the, without, you know, the problem of, of who's going to pay
for it, and I loved Norway. We had visited there in 1967, believe it
or not. That was another thing that happened in 1967, and so I fell in
love with that country. In fact, the Norwegian National Anthem, vi
elsker dette landet, we love this country. And so, I, I went to Norway
and that was where I, I completed Volume Three and began to work on
Volume Four. The, during that year I gave lectures at the university
every Wednesday, and stayed at home and did my, my book writing and
reading and taking care of my kids the rest of the time. So, finally
then Volume Three came out and it was, it was, it added a new
dimension to this whole idea of analysis of algorithms, because when
you start talking about the, about the topics that are in Volume
Three, it turned out that, that there were many - even though the,
it's talking about particular things, sorting, searching - the lessons
that you're learning apply to many, many other things, and so, and so
that was why Volume Three was, was especially important for me, that
it, the paradigms, the methods that we use to study algorithms of all
kinds seemed all arise in the context of sorting, so I could make a
unified story about it, but also, but from teaching general principles
while being able to illustrate them around the special theme of
sorting and searching.)

