## [49 - Working on Volume Four of The Art of Computer Programming](http://webofstories.com/play/17108)

Then I come back home and I'm thinking, okay, I'm ready, I'm going to
do Volume Four, and I, Volume Four is about Combinatorial
Algorithms. Now, combinatorial means, deals with zillions of
combinations of ways to do things, and, and as a result there's, there
were many, many problems where people, people had been wanting
computers to solve, because they couldn't solve them. So many cases
had to be done. You needed a computer to do it, yet nobody could
figure out how to do it efficiently. And so, a good idea could, could
make a method run more than a million times faster, and I was
collecting all these good ideas but people kept having more and more
good ideas. And so, there's something in the field called
Combinatorial Explosion, which means to most people that the size of a
problem is growing, is growing huge, very rapidly. To me,
Combinatorial Explosion meant the research on combinatorial methods
was growing explosively. In 1974, five and six, when I'm working on
Volume Four, more than 50% of all the papers in all the technical
journals were about things that belonged in Volume Four. So, in other
words, it's like sitting on top of a kettle that's boiling, you can't
control it. If I'd write something one week, it would be obsolete the
next week. It's like, you know, trying to write a book about the
internet today, or something, you know. So, it looked impossible to
finish Volume Four. I was doing my best, you know, and gathering
material for it and reading section, making lots of notes, and
upstairs I have hundreds of folders of, of these notes. I started and
I had 30 folders and they were well-organized, and then I made folders
called X1, X2, X3 until I got up to X15, not well-organized but just
extensions to the system, and then as new material came in I started
throwing it into a pile, saying I hope to have time to read this some
day. So this field is growing very fast.)

