## [5 - Interests in high school (Part 1)](http://webofstories.com/play/17064)

Back in high school, my main activities in high school, at, it was
called Lutheran High School, and then during my Senior year it split
into two schools, Milwaukee Lutheran High School, which was the one
I’d went to, and Wisconsin Lutheran High School. 

**1956 was the year I
graduated**, and that, well, the place where again I didn’t have
special, teachers who were specialists in a world class sense, but
they were always real interested in nurturing us.

I went on to be a
mathematician, but the math, but I didn’t have any interest very much
in Math at the time in high school, because my, I would ask questions
to my teachers, and they didn’t know the answer. So I could prove that
one was equal to zero, and they couldn’t find any mistakes in the
proof, and so you know, I couldn’t, and so, why should I go in, you
know, go into mathematics? So my main interest at that time was in
music, and also in physics.

My chemistry/physics teacher was a
wonderful man, who sort of wrote his own textbook, he designed the
chemical experiments, and I had a great admiration for him, and he
encouraged me to you know, to think some about physics, and although I
spent most of my time in music, outside of school.

In fact I, well I
played the piano with the high school chorus, I sang in the chorus, I
was in the band, I played the saxophone and I played the tuba in the
band, and I played, you know, in the All-City, the Milwaukee All-City
Band, or Symphonic Band. **I wrote music**, I arranged music for bands. I
had, I had, at the time I took a; I was a big fan of ***Mad Magazine***.

And also of Roger Price, if anybody remembers Roger Price, and he had
written a short story called “Milton and the Rhinoceros”. And so I
made a take off on Prokofiev’s “Peter and the Wolf”, with the words
from “Milton and the Rhinoceros”. I was very naïve at the time; I had
no idea about copyrights, or anything, so I **took Prokofiev’s music,
and I scored it for band, and I took Roger Price’s words**, “Milton and
the Rhinoceros”, and I made this, this piece for, I don’t know, 20
minutes or something like this, for our, for our high school band to
perform. And I proudly gave this to our band director, and he lost it,
and I’ve never seen it again.

So I have no idea whether it’s any good,
or whatever, but there it was.

