## [50 - Poor quality typesetting on the second edition of my book](http://webofstories.com/play/17109)

The publishers of my book are happy with the sales and so on. They
say, now, let's come out with a new edition. Let's come out with a new
edition of Volume Two, and they, and they, and I had, I had thoroughly
revised it. Another one of my projects in Norway was to go through
page by page and they had it on tear sheets, and you know, I tore up
the other book and then I said, okay, now add all this copy. So I
rewrote more than half of it for the second edition. And so then they,
they sent me back the galley proofs for the second edition and I was
shocked, I, I couldn't believe it. It looked awful. The quality of
typesetting was, was abominable. It was a pain to read. You couldn't
look at this because they had changed the printing technology in the
meanwhile. The, the books in the first edition were typeset on a
Monotype system, a lot of handwork involved, and the books in the
second edition were printed with, with a photographic method instead
of, instead of lead type, and, and the, the letters weren't positioned
very accurately on the films and some of them were darker than
others. There was no quality control. The subscripts were in a
different style than the, than the letters in other parts of the
formula, so the math looked especially atrocious. Anyway, I didn't
want, I didn't want my book to look like this. I couldn't stand to
have, to have such a thing coming out as my work, when I, you know,
when the first edition had been the quality that I loved from my
calculus book in college. And so I was extremely upset. I didn't know,
you know, what I was going to do and I went and took another trip to
Boston and I talked to the, to all the people there and they
sympathized with me and they said, well, maybe they could go through
some undercover people in Poland who might be able to make a better
copy of the old typefaces and, and do a better job, but the proofs
that I got from that were, were awful too. And they were contracting
out to the people who were the best in the world at this new
technology. The old technology was dying out. You could still get some
places in Hungary that would, that would use it and maybe in India,
would do Monotype setting of mathematics, but the people had died who
had this skill. And the, the printing industry had gone to the new
technology because it worked fine for newspapers and magazines.
 
For the typesetting? 
 
For the typesetting; and for mathematics, nobody cared. Mathematics
had always been considered penalty copy that, you know, that, that you
do. It had gotten, Addison-Wesley actually had the best mathematics
they, they had a man named Hans Wolf, who had learned his typography
in Germany, set up his type shop to do all Addison-Wesley's books,
right next door to Addison-Wesley headquarters in Massachusetts. And
that's why I had liked his books, because he had, he had, you know,
taken the old technology and, and perfected it, and, and he was
retired, you know, and all the people and the, you know, the
apprentices, they, they disappeared from the scene. So, I was at quite
a loss, and meanwhile, I was at Stanford. I was Chair of our committee
to design comprehensive examinations. The, the students are supposed
to take two examinations before they do their Ph.D, one is
comprehensive and one is specialized. So the comprehensive, they're
supposed to know a little bit of everything, and the specialized is in
their own field, whatever it is, artificial intelligence or
whatever. And so, every year one of my committee's duties is to read
the new books in the fields and to, and to see which ones to recommend
for the reading list for the students the following year, and a book
came out by Patrick Winston, which was only in galley proof form, but
this, but it was a book on artificial intelligence that was typeset in
a new way, and the, the typesetting had been done in Southern
California on an, on a machine that was completely digital. It wasn't
lead type, it wasn't photographs, but it was, it was pixels. It was
bits like we now have in all of our printing equipment now, but at
that time it was, you know, the digital printing at that time was not
considered good quality, but this, at this machine made by Triple I
Corporation-Internat- I can't remember what III stood for, but its
headquarters was in Southern California. This machine was used to
typeset the book by Pat Winston, and they sent galley proofs for my
committee to look at, and I looked at this and this was produced by a
computer and it looked gorgeous.)

