## [51 - Deciding to make my own typesetting program](http://webofstories.com/play/17110)

I was about to do my first real sabbatical, by going, and I was
planning to go to Chile in 1978 and learn Spanish, and, so, but in
February of 1977 I see these proofs from Winston's book and I know
that it's done with pixels, with bits, and that is a computer science
solution. That means these pixels are zeroes and ones, these are in
every part of the, in every tiny little part of the page you say, ink,
yes or no, and yes or no, zeroes and ones, that's a computer. So, so
printing had suddenly been reduced from a problem for metallurgists or
from a problem for optic, people in optics, you know, photography and
lenses to a problem in computer science, a problem about zeroes and
ones. All of a sudden printing, high quality printing was just a
matter of writing a computer program. And now, if anybody in the world
can deal with zeroes and ones, it was me, right? Anyway, I'd been
studying, you know, looking at galley proofs for ages, and my father
had printing presses in the basement, I didn't mention that. So, I'm
interested in type and I also, you know, see now that it's a computer
science problem. So I changed my whole life plan. I wrote to the
people in Chile saying sorry, I have to stay in California because we
have special equipment here that I'm going to need to do my work with
during the next year. I'm going to try to figure out a way to print my
book by making it myself out of zeroes and ones instead of using any
photographic or metal methods, and then, then I'd have perfect control
over it, and if technology changes again, I'll be able to survive the
change because I'll have the thing in digital form. And that was
within a week of seeing the proofs of Pat Winston's book in February
that I, that, I made this decision to stay at Stanford for my
sabbatical year and work on typography.)

