## [52 - Working on my typesetting program (Part 1)](http://webofstories.com/play/17111)

In the beginning of 1977 I spent the first three months writing part
of Volume Four. I, you know, I completed all my reading for Volume
Four and I was ready to finally type some pages, and I typed up a
hundred and some pages, but in the meanwhile that was that overlap of
the period when I had discovered about digital typography, that you
could get good quality from computer output. And so, my plan had been
to go to Chile and spend a year working on Volume Four, my, my first
real sabbatical, and I cancelled that to stay at Stanford and I
stopped working on Volume Four, put that on hold starting in April of
'77 and began to say, well, let me spend a year writing computer
programs that will make my book look okay again. And so, first I
thought, I had seen some people at Xerox Palo Alto Research Center
playing with letter forms, Butler Lampson especially, I remember
sitting in front of a computer monitor and he had a big capital B on
the screen and he was looking at spline curves along the edge that
would trace the edges of the B, and I thought, okay, that would be
pretty easy, I'll, I'll just capture all of the letter forms from my
book, I'll go over to Xerox and use their equipment and, and I'll
write a program that reproduces the format of "The Art of Computer
Programming", and I have a year to kill, so I'll do this. Well, the
first thing that went wrong was Xerox said, oh yes, it will be fine if
you come over and use our equipment, but then we own all of the fonts
that you produce, and I said no, no, I wanted these, you know, these
are mathematics that- I mean I come out of here with a bunch of
numbers that say where the edges of these letters are, but these are
just numbers. How can you own these numbers? You know, the numbers
belong to the world. But so I, anyway, I decided I would work at
Stanford instead. Stanford didn't have very good equipment. The, we
had some old TV cameras, and if you changed the lighting by a little
bit in the room, the letters would get 50% darker. So, there was
absolutely no way to get consistency between one day's work and
another day's work, and consistency is really important for, to get
good looking letters.)

