## [53 - Working on my typesetting program (Part 2)](http://webofstories.com/play/17112)

I decided to go to Stanford instead and there, at that time, Stanford
had a really great artificial intelligence laboratory up in the
mountains presided, presided over by John McCarthy. He welcomed me to
come up there and do anything I wanted and it was a great place to
work for the year that I spent, but we didn't have very good, very
good equipment compared to what they had at Xerox. We had TV cameras
that, that I could use, but if they changed the lighting in the room
just a little bit, the letters would change drastically from thin to
thick or vice versa, so there was no way to get consistency from one
day to the next. I should, I should mention that my publishers had
sent me beautifully printed copies of, of previous editions of my
book. What I mean by beautifully printed is, the way the books are
actually produced, are kind of interesting. With monotype, they set in
lead and they print one copy, and then they take that one great copy
and photograph it and print offset off of the, off of the film that
they've taken, and that was getting great results, but they had saved
the original copy that came off of the lead, so they sent me 50 pages
of the, of the real, absolutely definitive versions of what had been
used to do the previous edition of my book. So I took these to the, to
our TV cameras at the AI lab, but I couldn't get any consistency at
all. So I, so I didn't know what to do about this. I was talking to
Jill and she said- well, she could make some good slides, she could,
she could photograph these pages and we could make 35mm slides and
they would be sharp, and we could see what we could do with, with that
instead of working with a TV image. So, we tried that and then I got
my home projector, and I, and I projected the 35mm slide from the end
of the corridor onto a wall and so that it would be large enough, and
I could trace on a piece of paper what the letter forms were. But the
images were very fuzzy. When enlarged that much, you know, we didn't
have any way to magnify things now, like film scanners or anything
that didn't exist. Certainly we had no such equipment. So I'm sitting
there looking at these, trying to trace the letters and figure out
what are the shapes and, and suddenly it occurred to me, you know,
these letters were actually designed by a human being who had
something in mind, and if I could only psyche out what that person had
in mind, I could, I could write mathematical formulas that would match
that person's intentions. This was a weird, a weird dream, but anyway,
this was what, I was naïve and I thought this would be fine, and as I
had said, when I was in high school, I played a lot with graphs and
the relationship between shapes and, and mathematical formulas that
make those shapes. So, so as I'm sitting there with my pencil and
paper trying to, trying to trace the outlines off of these blurry
slides being projected on the wall, you know, I noticed a lot of
regularities. For example, I noticed that the letter n was exactly
twice the width of the letter i, and the letter m was exactly three
times the width of the letter i, and okay, great, you know, there was
consistency there, that if you have a word like minimum, all of those
vertical strokes are coming exactly at the same spacing. Also the u
was, you know, the same width as the n. So it occurred to me then that
if I could figure out, you know, what all these principles were that
the type designer had done, it wouldn't be too much of a problem to
capture that in mathematics. Okay, so instead of using- so then my
whole focus shifted so that I wasn't going to just copy the output of
a previous design, I was going to try to, to discover the intelligence
behind it, and program the intelligence into the computer, so that you
could tell a computer, draw a letter m, and it would draw a letter m,
and I, but I could say, now make it a little bolder, now make it a
little taller, a little narrower, and it would adapt everything
correctly. Now this was a weird concept to type designers. Type
designers always, you know, approached it with a completely visual
approach and no mathematics, probably thank goodness, because they
came up with beautiful design, but at any rate, I naïvely thought
that this was going to be easy, and of course my whole, my goal, it
was to have Volume Two ready for the printer after my sabbatical
year. I had one year to write these programs and to, and to capture
the letter forms and figure out how to typeset them.)

