## [54 - Research into the history of typography](http://webofstories.com/play/17113)

I wasn't going to go into this whole project blindly, I wanted to, I
wanted to avoid the mistake that almost every engineer makes when they
approach something with technology and that is to say, well, forget
the past, it's all a new world, throw, throw the old stuff out and
redo everything. So I didn't want to, in any way detach myself away
from the old traditions. I had these ideas about using mathematics to
capture the past, but I didn't, but I didn't want to throw away the
past so I did lots and lots of reading in the library, and I
studied. And Stanford has one of the best collections of books on fine
printing, called the Gunst Collection in its, in its department of
rare books. And so I spent lots and lots of time looking at all the
books I could get my hands on, on typography. Also, my wife and I were
members of the Associates of the Stanford Libraries, and we went on a
trip to Sacramento where we could see the Gutenberg Bible and various
other typographic specimens. There was a show put on there at the
Sacramento Bee Office about history of typography and beautiful
things, and we visited people who lived in the mountains and had their
own printing presses and, and collected books on typography. So this
was a two day trip into Gold Country, and we, and I'm staring at all
of the letters that I see, and saying, how could I capture this in, in
a computer? This was all taking place in the Spring of 1977.)

