## [55 - Working on my letters and problems with the S](http://webofstories.com/play/17114)

In June of 1977 my sabbatical begins, classes are over, I'm ready to
go on this and I, and I had sketched out ways to do lower case
alphabet, A to Z, and with mathematical specifications and I thought
great, this will, this will solve my problem because, you know, I can
make the letters all different sizes with slight changes in the
specifications. A good type design doesn't just make nine-point
letters, nine tenths of a tenth size of a ten-point letter, but they
also make them a little bit wider, subtle changes in the, in the
greyness of the characters and, but I could design my program with
these parameters to do the variations and draw each letter to each
size properly. This is a very natural thing for a computer scientist
to, to do because we're used to specifying things with parameters all
the time. I mean we, we have a job to perform and we, we have certain
things variable, and we twiddle those dials and that will give us a
different output. What, but I found out to my surprise that when I was
talking later to people in the graphics industry, I, they hadn't heard
the word parameter before, and they thought it meant perimeter and,
and I mean, it was something that, you know, but computer people think
it's just as natural as anything. Well, so I came up with 25 of the 26
letters in the middle of June and they weren't beautiful but they were
pretty close to, to being okay to my eyes at the time, but then there
was the letter S, and I couldn't figure out how to draw a blasted
S. And, I- it has a very peculiar shape where it changes over from
curves, sort of, curves left, then right a little bit, and then back
and forth, and what's going on in this shape. None of my mathematical
formulas would, would handle it, and I spent several days without
sleep up at the lab, you know, trying different things and every time
it would just look very ugly. And after, finally, I had to come home
and, you know, and, and go to bed and I showed my results to Jill and
she said to me, well Don- why don't you make it s-shaped? That was her
solution to my problems. Well, oh man, what was I going to do? So,
but, but finally after, I don't remember how many days it was,
counting the nights, anyways, it seemed like an eternity, I, I got the
idea that if, that I could go back to a geometry problem that the
Greeks might have enjoyed about ellipses, where if you have an ellipse
in it, and you try to make it, the ellipse just big enough so that the
tangent, as it's coming down, meets things in a proper way, it, we-
become a problem that would be interesting to Euclid or somebody,
although I don't think it was, would appear in his work. And that
would be a way to actually figure out, the ellipse would be for part
of the S, and when it comes to this tangent, then we go off on that
tangent and go to the other part of the S, and so I had finally a
mathematical formula that I could, that looked like an S, and I could
change some of the parameters and it would look like a slightly
different S and so on. But before I came up with that formula, I was
thinking, well, maybe I could change my book, you know, and try to
avoid using the letter S entirely, but then I, you know, I'd have to
leave Stanford. So it was, I would go, you know, visit Safeway and
they had a funny looking S, you know, and I would see all the
different S's everywhere, but to finally solve the problem of the S,
right, but incidentally, I never did solve the problem of the dollar
sign, though. The dollar sign that I have is still pretty ugly and,
and I'm waiting for some new idea to come along, but I never was too
much interested in dollars really, so I didn't bother to spend too
many days on that.)

