## [56 - Figuring out how to typeset and the problem with specifications](http://webofstories.com/play/17115)

So then I had 26 letters, but I had to go on and figure out how to
typeset, how, how to put them on the page next, so I stopped working
on fonts and I, and I started to just figure out well, how am I now
going to specify my book. This was what, you know, I, this was very
early days, now there's all kinds of software that does this, but
nobody had it in those times, except there were some good programs
written for the newspaper industry, especially in fact for "US News
Report"and for "News Day", and, and so the people who had written
those programs were students of friends of mine, and, and so I went
and talked to them. I looked at the programs that were available. I
looked at the programs that had been used to typeset the Volume Two
that I'd thrown away. That typesetting was done in Belfast by, by a
company that was top of the line as far as commercial mathematics
setting was concerned, and they, they knew their business but they
just didn't have good fonts to use for the output of their system, so
I, so I looked at that system, and I looked at a system that was
developed at Bell Laboratories and, you know, every, every other
system for this, and I, then I sat down and I took ten sample pages of
my book and I said, you know, as soon as I get those, these pages
working then that'll handle all of the formats that I need, you
know. In fact, these were just fragments of pages, but I have, have
lots of different kinds of things going on in my book, from ordinary
copy to, to math formulas and algorithms, computer programs, table,
tables and figures and all these different typographic features, but
it, it boiled down to four pages of stuff, with changing a lot in it
and I, and I sat down and I said, okay, here's how I would like to
specify those four pages of, of sample text for a typesetting system
that would work. And I stayed up all night one night typing this trial
language for, for capturing my book, and, and then the only problem
was to imagine a computer program that would go from this input to
zeroes and ones on the page. That would, that would do it. And so,
then I stayed up another night writing up the rules of this language
and showed them to some friends a couple of weeks later, revised those
rules. Then it was the middle of July and time for me to go to
China. I had, with some other people, my, my wife and kids and, and
three other people, we took a trip to China. This was kind of early
days for China. Mao had just, had died less than a year before, but we
were invited to spend three weeks at, in various parts of China and
see the country, and, and it was kind of a unique opportunity, and
also for, for my kids, they were some of the first children from the
USA to be allowed into the, into mainland China at the time and so we
had, so that was my summer plans. So I had two student assistants that
summer, and I presented them with my specifications for, for my
typesetting language, which at the time I called TEX, now we pronounce
it Tech, but you know, first it was called TEX, you know, and I, and I
assumed that when I got back from China they would have the computer
program working. Then I, you know, then I can go on and do the next
part of my work. Well, I had a great time in China and I came back,
but to my surprise, they hadn't even gotten one page out yet, one test
page done, and, well, another student had made some progress on the
question of hyphenating words, but I was a little bit surprised that,
that it turned out to be so difficult, when I thought my
specifications were so clear. Well, this was my introduction to the
reason why so many software projects fail, because people think that
specifications are clear, but, but really, as soon as you try to
translate some specifications that seem clear to a human being and,
and explain those to a computer, you know, there's all kinds of
questions that come up that you never anticipated. So, here the
students are, and every time they, they come to, to a new part of my
specifications, a question arises and they can't ask me because I'm,
I'm off in China. So then they have to meet with each other, and say,
what did he mean by that, you know? What did he think? And so on, a
get-together. And so they solved that, and they, they'd work for
another half an hour and they'd come up with another such problem, you
know, over and over again. So, it was miraculous they got done as much
as they did, that, you know, while I was gone. Anyway, they did show
me the program that they wrote and that, that gave me an idea for
architecture or structure that I could use when I had to write the
real program myself later. So then they go back to school, and I come
back and I start, and I start programming in earnest.)

