## [57 - Working on the programming for TeX and using a structured program for the first time](http://webofstories.com/play/17116)

I started programming in a, in a way that I hadn't done before. During
the '70s, a style of programming was developed called Structured
programming, which made it easier to, to produce reliable programs,
programs that you could understand as you were writing them, and, and
I had done some experiments with it on a lower, on a smaller scale,
but this was going to be my first large program written with this
methodology of Structured programming. And the new thing was that as
I'm writing the program, I didn't feel the need to test it, to test
each part of it as I was writing it. I could just write and write and
write and assumed that after it's all written, it'll be pretty close
to working. So what actually happened is that I, I started writing in
September or October, and I didn't test, I, I didn't actually enter
any of the program into the computer or test it or debug it until the
next March, so all these months are going by, and, and I didn't feel
the need for a prototype or any, any, I mean, when most programmers
write something is they'll put, they'll put something together and
then that's only part of the program so then they'll mock up the
missing parts to have something that pretends that these other missing
parts are there before they write them, but then, then later on when
those parts are there, then they can continue, and they, and they
build up more confidence all the time. Well, with structured
programming, I already had pretty much confidence, so I didn't feel
the need to dummy up these extra parts, and that saved me a lot of
time because all the time that I would take to write, to write the
dummies, I no longer needed. But, sometimes I have to admit a few
twinges of doubt, you know, you had five months going by between the
time I wrote the program to the time I'd get to really try it out, but
you see, I couldn't. One of the things I would have had to dummy up
was the whole, the whole question of fonts. I couldn't do typesetting
without the fonts, and I had to write those, I had to do all those
fonts as well, and that was, you know, three, three months of that
five was to get the fonts going.)

