## [59 - Converting Volume Two to TeX and how an implementor/designer should be the first user of his programs](http://webofstories.com/play/17118)

By the time, by Easter time then at near the end of my sabbatical
year, I finally was able to typeset a few, a few sample pages of, and
got my, my test program going, but I didn't have Volume Two done by
any, by any stretch of the imagination. Still, it was- enough was in
place that I could see that it was going to be possible. I guess I
should mention that I had no idea that I was designing a typesetting
system that anybody else in the world would ever use, besides me and
my secretary. My idea was that, that I would teach Phyllis, whom I,
who was my secretary for almost 20 years, and I dedicated one of my
books to her, that's a long story there, but anyway, so Phyllis and I
were going to be the users of this TeX system, and I tried to make it
so that she, you know, I knew she'd be able to learn it, but I tried
to design it just, just good enough to do my books and no other
books. So, so the next phase was however, for me to go through the
entire manuscript, the Volume Two, and I wrote a program that
converted from the Belfast system to my new system and that would be,
that would be a close approximation, and I started in. Well, it was
several months of work, it's a 700 some, 700 or 800 page book, but
another, I learnt another important lesson during this time. Not only
should the designer of a system be the first, that would be for the
implementer, also has to be the first user, because I'm actually using
the system, I'm always getting ideas about how to make it better, and
if, and if I'm not a heavy user, but just a designer, I don't have the
experience to know why those features are useful. So I kept track of
all of the changes that I made to the system at this time, and I also
knew how many pages I had been typesetting of Volume Two. And I went
through and, and made a graph of it afterwards, and it's almost a
perfect straight line. Every four pages I typeset, I got a new idea,
you know, I'd do, I'd do 200 pages, what is that, 200 divided by four,
have a computer, 50 new ideas, right. So, and it's a straight line
until I got up to about 500 pages, and then it's flat. After that it
was all boring. The last, you know, I mean after, after a certain
point there was no learning curve anymore. I knew all the things that
needed to be improved, but, but those many changes that I made at the
beginning, were, were certainly important for all future users of the
system, although I didn't know that there would be any users of the
system at the time.)

