## [6 - Interests in high school (Part 2)](http://webofstories.com/play/17065)

I also **started the school newspaper**. I was Editor of the paper, and
during my Senior year, I would do an all-nighter every Monday night. I
stayed up the whole night, getting the paper done by seven o’clock in
the morning. We didn’t have a professional way to produce it, so I
produced it on a mimeograph machine, which was something that’s way
obsolete now, but it uses very greasy ink, and the reason I did that
was because we happened to have one at our house.

My dad did part time
work for an architect in Milwaukee, printing up the specifications,
and you know, he could make a little freelance money this way to
supplement his meagre salary, and he also used this machine to typeset
music for local choirs, and so I had this machine at home, and also
some electric typewriter that he had, or maybe my mother had; anyway
we had it at home, so **I could produce our school newspaper at home**,
without having to worry about fancy typesetting, but we had a lot of
reporters, and I wrote some features for it, like crossword puzzles,
and things like that. So again, I was doing **a lot of writing in my
spare time, during high school**.

I worked on the Yearbook and other
publications as well, and friends of mine, friends and I wrote plays
that were put on by groups in the high school. So it was a fun
time. But I would say at that part of my life I was pretty much a,
like a machine, an autom-, I mean I was just, I would just learn,
absorb stuff, and take tests and you know, **get 100% on the tests** if I
could, without really sitting back and taking a look at finer things
in life, or something like this. I was a, I was a dutiful child who
said, okay, you’re supposed to go to school Don, so I went to school,
and you’re supposed to learn, so I learned, and I had fun on the side
with some of these writing projects, but **I really wouldn’t read a book
unless it was assigned to me**.

Sometimes I would read, I remember, **I’m
a very slow reader**, and I remember *Bleak House*, by Charles Dickens,
with 60, 70 chapters, and I, it took me so long to read it that I had
to use it for two book reports instead of one, and I didn’t; so it
wasn’t **until I was in my 30s** before I actually found some of the great
literature of the world and read it for my own pleasure.

In high
school, well I guess I was a fairly successful machine, because they
said that my, okay, in those days they didn’t give just letter grades,
like A, B, C, but they gave a number grade, and based on you know,
when you took an exam, they would average these scores, and they would
grade your homework and it was all based on a zero to 100 system, and
they said that **my average which was more than 97.5 was a record for
the school** that hadn’t been achieved before, so I was pretty much **a
nerd of nerds** at that time.

