## [60 - Writing a user manual for TeX](http://webofstories.com/play/17119)

However, the AI lab is a very open place, there's, there were dozens
of people and lots of visitors, and no doors closed, and so people are
looking and saying, what are you doing, Don, and they, they see this
interesting stuff coming out of the printing machine, and so, pretty
soon it became known that I had a system that would typeset something
that looked almost like a real book. And, and one of the visitors was
Guy Steele from MIT, and he said, Don, I want to port, you know, I
want to port this system, I want to modify it so we can use, we can
use it also at MIT. I thought, oh my goodness, should I have other
users, you know, but then, by this time I could see that other, you
know, that there were enough people expressing interest in it, that,
that I had better write a manual, and expand that. It wasn't going to
be just Phyllis and me using, using it. So, then during the summer of
'78, I wrote a Users' Manual and it was a little bit interesting that
the, our computer was extremely unreliable up there. The people, the
people, we had four really brilliant computer scientists improving the
operating system every day, but, but because they were improving it
every day, it would, every day it was also crashing because they would
make mistakes, and so, so I wrote the entire User Manual during
computer downtime. I'd go up, you know, I'd go up there and the
computer, you know, at nine o'clock in the morning and the computer
would crash at 09:30, so I, I opened my tablet and I'd write another
chapter, the computer comes up ten or eleven o'clock, and I can, you
know, do a little more work until, until it's ready to write another
chapter. So, I learnt another lesson there and that is, if you have a
system that's always improving, nobody gets to use it. And I and I'll
talk a little more about stability of software later on. The, the
budget for, for operating system work ran out the next year, and so
three of these four people went to Livermore to work on another
system, another project, and the fourth guy, Marty Frost stayed and
his job was not to make any more improvements, but just to make sure
that it was stable, that the system was stable and reliable. And so,
so that was the greatest thing that the system wasn't improving any
more after, after '78. And I dedicated a book to Marty also.)

