## [61 - Working with The American Mathematical Society and giving the Gibbs Lecture](http://webofstories.com/play/17120)

I got my Users' Manual ready and had visitors from the American
Mathematical Society. They were, they were, they had horrible
typesetting problems. They're the largest publisher of mathematics in
the world, and they, they tried to do their best with their journals,
but their journals were looking terrible, just like, you know, just
like my books. They were, they were upset about that situation, so
they had heard about rumours of my system. Even their, their most
prestigious publication, "The Mathematical Reviews", which they had
typeset by a really expensive company, that company couldn't do all of
the operations that they wanted, so they came, visited me for two
weeks and took a look at my system and I, and I showed them some
mock-ups of how we could maybe typeset journals as well as "The Art of
Computer Programming". I was invited then to give, to give, something
called The Gibbs Lecture of the American Math Society. Every year it's
one of the main invited lectures to the main annual meeting, and the
lectures are usually given by a pure mathematician, but every four
years they take somebody who's more applied, so Einstein had given one
of these lectures, you know, all the various glorious mathematically
oriented, mathematically oriented physicists had done, so it's quite a
thing to get, to be invited to give a Gibbs Lecture. I decided my
Gibbs Lecture would not be about what they expected in computer
science, but I was going to talk about typography, so my Gibbs Lecture
was about mathematical typography. And I still, I still didn't have my
fonts all done though, for Volume Two, I just had enough done that I
could test my system, but there was still a lot of work to do to get
the, to fine tune and to make it look like, like a high quality
thing. Still, I could give the Gibbs Lecture in, at the end of, well,
it was the beginning of 1979, and it was a big hit with the, with the
audience, so I knew that there was also a hunger out there for, you
know, for, for people being able to do better typesetting of the
mathematics.)

