## [62 - Developing Metafont and TeX](http://webofstories.com/play/17121)

Somebody suggested that I call it Metafont, because it wasn't my, yes,
it wasn't something I, I made up myself and I can't, I think it was
maybe Bob Filman, but I can't remember for sure, but as we were
looking at these things up at the lab, there was lots of visitors and
people talking to me all the time, and that, that was a nice name
because of the parameters. I'm not designing just one font of type,
I'm designing a font that varies with the specifications, you know, it
varies substantially with different specifications, and the, and so
there's lots of like words, like metamathematics means going a little
beyond mathematics or metaphysics, metaphysics really meant after
physics in Greek, but the word Metafont turned out to be kind of
appropriate. Now, it's something like morphing, in a way that you can
go from one shape to another, that's why I'm thinking metamorphosis
here, and, but the, my first programs for fonts were, each, each
letter was drawn by a specific computer program written in computer
language. I had to change that so, so that I could devise a special
language just for fonts, so that it was easier to make changes and,
and to make the design. Instead of writing computer code, you know,
the language like ALGOL, I could write now in this Metafont language,
and then I would have an interpreter that would read the Metafont
language and draw the shapes instead of the original way, which was
calling subroutines that would, that would draw the shapes. So, it was
a completely different kind of a language than had existed before and,
but I came up with the first design of a Metafont language in
1979. Now, as the number of users grew from one person to ten people,
I needed to change the system because they had different, you know,
they'd discovered different bugs, they needed different, different
facilities. Then it grew from ten to 100, and again, I had to add more
stuff to the, to the language. By this time it was called TeX instead
of Tex because there was already a system called Tex, and the,
Honeywell refused to give us permission to use that name, even though
their system was an operating system, not a typesetting system. We
couldn't do that. So, we said, well, this isn't Tex, this is TeX, this
is Greek, Tau Epsilon Chi, it's not, it's not an English word at all,
it just happen to look very much like the English word Tex. And well,
we told all the users to pronounce it TeX, and, but their lawyers
didn't think that wasn't much, enough of a distinction, so we left it
on paper that, you know, if they want to sue us, you know, we
wouldn't, we didn't get an official registered copyright, we just have
it as a copyright, not a registered copyright. Metafont on the other
hand, is a registered copyright. Nobody was complaining about that
name. Well, I was going to say, as we get, as we get ten times as many
users, then we need, then I have to go back and retool the
system. This can, this can be too long a story, so I'd better start
summarizing. The first version of TeX, a prototype version, was called
TeX 78, because it, it saw the light of day in 1978, then there was
Metafont in '79, but these are quite different from the Tex and
Metafont systems that we have now. These were the first versions. I
have another policy that I recommend, and that is if you're doing a
first generation piece of software, get it working, do your best, try
to get it so that it's perfect and then get a lot of experience with
it, then throw it away and start over. Scrap it and don't worry about
being compatible with the old, because there are going to be many,
many more users in the future than you ever had in the past, even
though there might have been thousands of users in the past, there
will be more, you know, tens of thousands in the future and they'll
all thank you for having a better, a better system. I don't do it- the
second one I keep though. And now there's so much invested in it that,
that I'm sure that I would never want to use a system that, you know,
that I never want to change again to a system that's incompatible with
the one that I've been using for so many years now. Okay, this is,
this takes us then to the point where suddenly we have users from
around the world, and even now a meeting of people coming to Stanford
to take a look at this system and to try to get it running and not- at
first it was running at MIT but, but then it was, it was running at
hundreds of different kinds of computers all over, all over the
world.)

