## [63 - Why I chose not to retain any rights to TeX and getting it transcribed from SAIL to Pascal](http://webofstories.com/play/17122)

From the beginning I decided that I wasn't going to retain any rights
to this system, except the right of, of nobody should, should, should
diddle with it. They, anybody could use my system free of charge as
long as they didn't make any changes whatsoever. It had to be entirely
compatible with the system that I had, and, and I wanted, so I didn't
want to charge for anything. If I had, if this had been the only thing
I had worked on in my life, I would have probably, I would certainly
had a different idea, but I, but I had seen the way proprietary things
had been holding back the printing industry for years and years. There
were five or six different commercial systems for describing pages of
text, and they were, everybody thought they were the systems that
everybody in the world would use, and they, and they were totally
incompatible with each other and they, and you couldn't use different
fonts with different systems. It was all, it was all a mess. So, I was
thinking that in the earlier days of computer programming languages,
IBM did not keep FORTRAN as a, as something that was an IBM-only
language, they allowed, they allowed dozens of other manufacturers to
make their own FORTRAN versions, and as, and that was, that was a big
boon to the, to, to use of computers. I, I could see that the same
would happen in, in the printing industry if, if I didn't retain
proprietary rights to, to the use of this system, and I also made all
my code available so people, people could read it and see what I had
done and find mistakes for it, and I paid people if they found an
error. So, thousands of volunteers sprung up all over the world,
helping me get this, get this system better.
 
Is this when you invented the Weave and Tangle? 
 
So, the literate programming idea, the Weave and Tangle came about
shortly afterwards in 1982. First of all, I had written my program in
a, in a Stanford-only language. It was called SAIL, Stanford
Artificial Intelligence Language. It's something that not many people
could do, but I, you know, so, so in order to run at first on other
machines, it was difficult unless they'd happen to have a PDP10
Computer which is, with a SAIL compiler. So, in the early days that's
why MIT was, were one of the first users, and there were, there were
quite a few installations of this computer and system, but not, but it
was, it wasn't on very many different machines, so I don't think on
IBM mainframe you could run, you could run it. So then a student
transcribed my code. This was Iñaki Zabala, transcribed my code into
Pascal, I think David Fuchs and Art Samuel also worked with him on
this. Anyway, lots of people were working on this, I didn't do it
myself, but they, they transcribed my, my program from the SAIL
language into Pascal language and then that would run on, on every
computer and that's, that's where we had hundreds of, of, of different
users and then we started having a, having annual meetings of the
people who were from around the world to trade information.)

