## [64 - Tuning up my fonts and getting funding for TeX](http://webofstories.com/play/17123)

After I had so many users, I realized that the, the original, my
original designs were too naïve. They had, I had to go, I had to
retool them and, and so the, as I was doing it, I, I came across the
idea of literate programming at the same time. But I have to postpone
that a second first because meanwhile, with the old systems, with the
TeX 78 and Metafont 79, I also wanted to tune up my fonts, you know,
so that I could, so that I could really match the, the letter forms,
and I'd been reading a lot of, I'd been reading a lot of things about
font design and learning more about history of letters, and so I, I
was also talking with and meeting people at, in industry, like
Linotype and you know, Mergenthaler, and so they introduced me to, to
type designers and especially I got to know Chuck Bigelow and Matthew
Carter and eventually, Hermann Zapf, who were the three of the four
leaders in the field. The fourth man Frutiger, I never did meet. He
was, he was ill, but, but I could have if he had been, if he had been
healthy. But, but, so, so they helped me get the worst glitches out
of, out of my, my designs and when I had the, the Metafont 79 I could,
I had the benefit of their comments to, to revise my designs. I also,
I also had to buy a typesetting machine, and so I took trips around
the world to different places, to where they had different
experimental type typesetting machines, and when we finally got one,
it was called an Alphatype, which had the highest resolution of any
machine that I, that I could get in. It was also, we could afford
it. It cost us, I don't know, $40 or $50,000. I think Addison-Wesley
paid for $20,000 of that. We were running on a shoestring, but, but it
turned out later we got, we got good Research Funding. I was supported
by the National Science Foundation to do research in algorithms, and
that was including, as far as they knew, that was what I was going to
do during my sabbatical year and I said, you know, my research on
algorithms is going to, going to have the following seven parts to
it. And the first six parts are, I'm going to study algorithms for,
you know, various combinatorial problems, and the seventh part was,
I'm also going to work on algorithms for, for typesetting so that I
can explain the research that I'd done on the first six parts of my
grant. And really, I spent all my time on, on part seven, pretty much
because I had the other research basically done already, so I could, I
could still have the other thing on my, on my progress report, but I
was working full-time on, on this typesetting. And, so they were
supporting it through the backdoor. And later on, System Development
Foundation learnt that. Well, I met with NSF people and we were open
about the need for it, and they said, why don't I make a proposal to
another division of NSF for, to work on digital typography after the,
my Gibbs Lecture and so on. Then people knew about it, and so I got,
so I got NSF support also from another division, but then the System
Development Foundation was a special thing that they were trying to
spend a lot of money wisely that had been left over from the System
Development Corporation's Sage Project in Southern California, and
they, they supported things like Stanford's center for Music and
Acoustics, and they gave me $1 million to, in the words of their Chief
Financial Officer, who, what you call him, he said he wanted to give
me this money so that I could finish the work on TeX and get back to
"The Art of Computer Programming". So, so I had good funding
eventually, but in the early days it was, it was, we were not flush
with money by any means. So, I get advice from the top- the world's
top designers, they look at the letters and they mark it up with red
pen and, and then I fix it until it satisfies them. And I get this
Alphatype Machine, and in order to run the Alphatype Machine I had to
write my own software for the insides of the machine. It had a little,
tiny 8-bit computer in it with six levels of interrupts and I had to
write my own assembly program for it, and, and it had very little
memory in. We had to transmit from our mainframe to this computer with
little Zilog machines. So, it was a heck of a lot of fun, but also
very frustrating too, because this, this machine is deaf and blind,
and it took a lot of work to get it going. Finally I was able to
typeset on the Alphatype, and I had pages that looked like, that
looked like, you know, high resolution and much better than the ones
that I did. So, I, I, I, after all this work, I started in 1977 and,
and continuing on much longer than the year that I thought it was
going to take, I finally had Volume Two all ready and printed on the
Alpha Type and I could send it to Addison-Wesley for them to
photograph and, and print by offset.)

