## [65 - The second attempt to print Volume Two of The Art of Computer Programming](http://webofstories.com/play/17124)

I was expecting to be, the greatest day of my life when the book
arrived in January of 1961, '81, 1981, I was expecting that would be
the greatest time to, to open this book and, you know, celebrate. I
finally had the project done. Well, it was one of the worst days of my
life. I opened the book, and I didn't like it at all, what I see, I
mean I had, you know, the, it was the old binding, and, but when I
looked at, and I, and I opened it, and it just looked completely
different, and I had, you know, from the proof that I'd seen, I had
thought that it was going to be, it was going to be fine, but I, I
felt so, I could feel this huge rush of heat as I'm looking at it
saying- oh no. I had spent all this time and, and I got this, and I
tried to, the people were saying- nice job Don and so on, but I
couldn't believe them, you know, I, and inside of me I said, my gosh,
I'm way far from being done with this and getting something, you know,
something decent. The worst thing was the numbers, I mean, most of the
pages looked okay if you, if you're not too fussy, but as you're
paging through the book, and you're looking for a certain page or
you're looking at the numbers, or your eyes are focussing on numbers,
and I, and I debugged the A, B, C, D and E, but the zero, one, two,
three, four I didn't spend much time on and, and boy, those numbers
just were very ugly. So I had to go through another, first I couldn't
get the letter S, now I couldn't get a two or a five, and so I would,
you know, all the 25 mile hour limit speed limit signs I would see on
the road I would say, how did they do that? And, so, anyway, I'm
depressed by this, knowing that there's still so much to do. The, but
I've got lots of users around the world who don't know that I'm
depressed about it, and so I'm trying to, but my font designers then
said, look Don, the period of apprenticeship for a type designer is
always five years, you've only been working on this for two years, how
can you expect to have, you know, have succeeded after two years. So,
they were very kind to me and, and through the grants that we had now,
I could invite them to Stanford and spend, and, and, and spend time
with, with them and, and learn, learn from them what I should've
done. And this is when I found that the people in the graphic, the
graphic artists are just about the nicest people in the world as far
as I've met so far, anyway. So it was a great, great thing. I couldn't
keep up with all my teaching at Stanford though, I'm not on sabbatical
but I found that doing software was much, was much harder than writing
books and doing research papers. It takes another level of commitment
that you have to have so much in your head at the time when you're
doing software, that, that I had to take leave of absence from
Stanford from my, from my ordinary teaching for several quarters
during this period.)

