## [66 - Literate programming](http://webofstories.com/play/17125)

Meanwhile I was also coming up with the definitive version of TeX and
this idea of literate programming. So now let me go back to the story
of Weave and Tangle that you brought up a minute ago. In retrospect,
I, I think the greatest benefit to me personally out of all this work
on typography was the idea of literate pro- that I decided to call
literate programming, which is a way of treating computer programs as
literature, where, where the pr- a computer program is something that
human beings are, are supposed to read and you write that for people
to read, rather than for a computer to read, and so as I'm writing
programs, I'm being a teacher. I love to be a teacher. I'm, I'm not
just teaching a computer, I'm teaching a, the reader of my program and
I'm, you know, I'm hoping someday there will be a Pulitzer prize for
the most literate program, etcetera. I started out experimentally
doing this because a friend of mine, Professor Hoare, at Oxford said,
Don, people don't ever read computer programs. Oxford University Press
was interested in maybe publishing some computer programs, examples of
how it should be done and so that, instead of just having, just having
this sort of, this hidden documents that the computer programs would
be out there for people to study and comment on, the way other kinds
of literature are, you know, musical notation; people, you know,
people publish scores of symphonies, they don't just listen to the
symphonies, so why can't we publish, you know, computer programs? And
he planted this idea but, but it scared me because really, computer
programs in the real world are so full of compromises. A professor of
computer science couldn't admit to having written such a thing. We can
write short programs that are really, that are, that really look like
little gems and we can pretend that when we write a large program,
it's all, it's all this jewel-like character, but, but in fact, I
don't think any large program would, you know, the authors wouldn't
have been proud to have other people to read it as it was done at the
time. So, I'm also saying, how can I write a program so that people
could enjoy reading it? So, eventually this idea of literate
programming grew where I could see a format, by which a program could
be presented to other people and the great thing that came out of this
was that also, I as the writer of the program would be able to
understand it better. So, eventually I had this system where I would
typeset, where I'd write a program in this web language and then I
would, then I had two computer programs going from it, one of it goes
from the web language to, to a computer code in Pascal language at
that time, and the other goes from the web language into a document
that I can read with things nicely typeset in it, cross indexes and
expository developments. This, this system is what I, it provides
weekly delights for me to this day, I'm writing programs in, in CWEB,
which is the descendant of the original web system, and I, it's a
continual source of pleasure to me, to be able to program in this way
that I feel is so right.)

