## [67 - Re writing TeX using the feedback I recieved](http://webofstories.com/play/17126)

I rewrote TeX from scratch using literate programming and added, you
know, changed a lot of the things that users had found awkward, added,
added the features that they needed, and, and the system TeX 82 came
out as the definitive one and it's still almost identical to what we
have today except for more features for, for European languages. The,
so I was finally getting to a system that I could believe would be
stable, and had some reason to- During this time I wasn't working
alone, by any means, I had not only my, my research assistants but
also I had lots of volunteers from the Stanford community and we would
meet every week on Fridays, well, at lunchtime we'd bring bagged
lunches but we often stayed two, three hours, and as I'm developing
the new system TeX 82, there are 22 chapters to the manual, and as I'm
writing each part of, of the manual, I'm discussing with the group,
what should it really be, I mean, what, all the issues that, you know,
it's like I get sentiment from, from lots and lots of people and, and
it would not only be Stanford people, but there was always visitors to
campus and so we had people from around the world participating in
these sessions, font designers as well as mathematicians and these
sessions continued as we were refining the Metafont language in later
years. So, here I had a great exposure to, to a lot of varieties of
opinion, but I had to make the final decision. I, I knew that we had
this, I talked about creeping featurism before, that every user wants
to have their own thing, and I also know about design by committee,
where if you have a committee who's responsible for something,
everybody on the committee has to feel that there's some part of the
language they can point to, and the language you get as a result is
usually pretty disunified. So, I was going to insist that I be the
filter for all the ideas and I, and I implement everything and, but I
did allow a lot of people to express their opinion and finally I
reserved to myself, the decision. The decision of the judge will be
final, basically, yes. I wrote the program so that it would last
forever, and not, not be always improving, because of my experience
that I had with these improving systems, so I wanted to, I wanted it
so that if somebody creates a document with TeX 82 in 1982, he can run
it also in 2002 and get the same output on every computer in the
world, and pretty much that ideal has been realized. Now, I also
published the program in a book. The entire code is, is, you know, a
600 page book, "TeX, The Program", it's, I think more people in the
world understand that program than any other program of its size,
because it was written in this literate manner, and it was, it was,
you know, in all countries, people were looking at this and finding
out how it works and seeing exactly how they could use similar
techniques in their own program. This was done without royalties and,
and the only royalties that would come in for people buy the Users'
Manual, and, and those royalties are shared with the TeX Users Group,
this international group of users for their projects on promoting the
use of the language.)

