## [68 - The importance of stability for TeX](http://webofstories.com/play/17127)

This was, this was kind of the birth of, in some ways, of open source
software movement, which, which has gotten very popular recently, but
it's different from the so-called GNU public license that is a very
successful today for most of the open source thing. It's different in
one way, that the, one way that's very important to me, and that is
that this open source GNU public license software is, comes with the
saying that anybody can change it, not only can anybody use it, they
can modify it to their hearts' content. I don't allow people to change
TeX, unless they call it something else. So, if you, if you make, if
you give it any other name whatsoever, then you're free to change it,
but if you call it TeX, then it's got to be exactly the same as
everybody else's TeX and the one that I personally have, have given, I
have special programs that are used to validate whether or not you've
implemented TeX correctly. And so, that's different from the open
source. In fact, somebody once looked at one of my fonts and said, oh
I can improve that, I'll change the spacing a little bit, and as a
result one of my books, all of a sudden, didn't typeset the same, and,
and, but the, one of the early distributions of Linux included his
so-called improved font, and, and I all of a sudden found out from my
co-author that, that, you know, that he was getting different
paragraph behavior, and we traced it down to somebody, you know,
making what looked to him, like an improvement. That's what happens
when you have complete, you know, when anybody can modify and they,
like the Wikipedia nowadays, you know, it's, you can go to Wikipedia
and you can look at any article, and there's a little button you can
press saying edit, and you can change anywhere in that article and
it's there, it's in Wikipedia. They don't even ask you who you are,
making the change. I think that Wikipedia's enormously successful, but
it's so brittle, you know, if I was, if I spent a lot of time writing
an article for the Wikipedia, and I wanted to make sure nobody screwed
it up, I would have to check that article every day to make sure that
it was still okay, and you know, after I've done that I want to move
on and go on to other, other things in my life. With TeX, I wanted
stability especially urgently because people are depending on it to be
a fixed point that they can build on, so in that respect, I differ
from the GNU public license.)

