## [69 - LaTeX and ConTeXt](http://webofstories.com/play/17128)

I developed TeX so that it would support many different formats that
would be at a higher level, so TeX is a fixed point that people can
build on, and one of the main ways that people have built on it, is
LaTeX and different versions of LaTeX improving over the
years. Another very important system goes way beyond LaTeX, called
ConTeXt, I don't know how they pronounce it, it comes in a Dutch, in
Holland they have very interesting pronunciation in Holland, and, but
certainly, way most popular is LaTeX, LaTeX, the author never has
decided how to pronounce it, and, and I don't use it myself, but I
know that lots of people really think it's exactly the language that's
most convenient, you know, for them to use. So, so I developed the
basic system so that it would support many different styles for
special projects. If somebody wants to write a dictionary between
Chinese and Icelandic, they can make their own format that would make
this really convenient for them, and there's many, many scholarly
versions and for all kinds of versions, so I, I tried to make it easy
to build different structures upon. When I have special formats that
my wife and I use for family history reports and for our recipes in
the kitchen and things like this, each one looks different when you
type the computer file, but TeX is the engine underneath in all
cases.)

