## [70 - A summary of the TeX project](http://webofstories.com/play/17129)

The whole thing started in 1977 when I was working all by myself and
then in '78, we started having other users, '79 we had Metafont, you
know, in '81 was the publication of Volume Two in the new format. Many
users coming through this time and I've also contacted the good font
designers. Then I have to redo all the fonts and I have to have a
better language for fonts too, so in 1983 and '84 I had a major
revision of Metafont language and, and that's when Hermann Zapf came
out to spend some weeks here and we, and he taught me a lot about, you
know, things I needed to know as well as help me refine the new
version of Metafont language. Richard Southall and Chuck Bigelow
joined our faculty for several years. We had a generous donation from
the people in Silicon Valley. I was hoping that we might have a
permanent project between Stanford Art Department and Stanford
Computer Science Department. This turned out to be too difficult to,
because we needed more than one faculty person to do it, and Chuck
would have been good, but there was just too much for one person to
handle, but we had more than a dozen students who have a masters
degree in typography, basically, and they're, they've been extremely
important in the, in the industry since then. We had this class in
font design at Stanford in 1984, co-taught by myself, Southall and
Bigelow. Unfortunately, the video tapes seem to, it was all on video,
but I think the tapes were erased, but these guys, Bigelow and
Southall gave brilliant lectures and I thought they were, you know,
they were archived, but somebody seems to have lost them or re, re
used them. But that was a big point in the development because I was
implementing the features of Metafont one week before they were
introduced by the class, and, and this was when the Sun Microsystems-
the Sun workstations were just new and brand new software for this,
and we were also teaching the students how to use the Sun workstations
in order to prepare their Metafont programs and so we had a very
exciting time where they were working day and night to make this
course happen and it was a huge success. That font language finally
stabilized in '84, that manual for Metafont was written and then I had
to do my final revision of the, of the fonts, of the, to make them
look acceptable, and for this, anyway, let's say I finished that in
1985 and, and so finally, after eight years I was able to bring my
typography project to a conclusion. It was supposed to be a one year
project for my sabbatical year.)

