## [71 - A year in Boston](http://webofstories.com/play/17130)

Now it was time for my real sabbatical. My real sabbatical year was
quite special and it started in the Fall of 1985 and, and I went to
Boston. Jill and I went to Boston, and, and the reason it's quite
special is because I had promised Jill that this would be her
sabbatical, not my sabbatical. It was, some people think it was
generous of me, but actually it was just less selfish than I could
have been because this was after 24 years of marriage, I was giving
her one year out of 25, and so, so this year in Boston, I did the
cooking, I did the shopping, I did the, the cleaning and she wrote
books, and, and you know, she'd had lots of projects that she'd been
saving up and I had my chance to learn how to do these things that she
had been providing for me patiently for all the years. It was easier
to do it this year than any other year because I, both of our kids
were now in college and so I didn't have to, I only had to, you know,
take care of her, I didn't have to take care of John and Jenny as
well. Although, the kids did come to visit a couple of times, you
know, so I learnt a little bit about quantity cooking, but mostly I
just learnt how to cook for two. And we lived in downtown Boston in
Back Bay and it was very, very pleasant to, I had to walk six blocks
to grocery stores and I had just a little backpack so I could carry a
few groceries every day, but, and the apartment wasn't too hard to
clean. Anyway, it was a very interesting year and I was incognito. I
went over to MIT one day only and just to look up a book in the
library, but I didn't tell anybody that I was there, I met Nick
Trefethen once, who was walking on the Charles River, but anyway, it
was a year when I, when I did completely different things. The only
computer-related thing I did, we had an internet connection in our
apartment so that I could communicate to Stanford to finish the
typesetting of my books on typography because the five volume series
of books was published by my publisher to contain the results of all
of the work that had been done on typography, so the first volume is
the User Manual for TeX, the second volume is the program for TeX, the
third volume a User Manual for Metafont, fourth volume, program for
Metafont, fifth volume, all the programs for the computer modern
fonts, the, the letter forms in my books, and, and so during that year
I also saw those five books through the press located conveniently
right there in Boston.)

