## [72 - Writing a book about the Bible: 3:16 (Part 1)](http://webofstories.com/play/17131)

The other thing I started working on at that time was a completely
off-the-wall project that, that became another book later on called
"3:16". "3:16" is a, is a book that's different from any other book
that's ever been written and there are either two reasons why this
happened. One is that it was a stupid idea to write such a book, you
know. Anyway, well, what's the other reason that it could be
different? Anyway, that, you know, that the time was finally ripe to
write such a book, I suppose. Anyway, I, "3:16" is, is a study of the
Bible from a, from a different perspective than has been used before
and it's a, and so, I have to explain it a little bit. The computer
scientists find it very natural, when they're studying a complicated
thing, to look at random parts of that thing and then probe those
in-depth and try to learn something about the whole by having a few
parts that they understand well. It's like the Gallup Poll where the
Gallup Poll would come and interview several people, you know, and
after interviewing a thousand people they'll speak for, you know, for
what they think millions of people are like and Nielsen ratings and so
on, are based on sampling. Well, I would use sampling when I was
grading papers. If somebody gives me a term paper, I don't have time
to read all 50 pages of the term paper, I'll choose a random page or
so, and then I'll see what that leads me to. The student doesn't know
in advance which page, which page I'm going to do. So, anyway,
sampling is something that comes naturally to a computer
scientist. One day in the '70s I said, well, you know, what would
happen if I tried this on the Bible? I would, that's a complicated
thing. What if I looked at random parts of the Bible and just to see
what people- go to the library and see what people have said about
those, about those parts, I, instead of somebody telling me what part
of the Bible to look at, I would just take an ordinary part, you know,
one, one that was, wasn't pre-planned and I would see whether or not I
could learn something that way. And I found it was really interesting
to do this. In fact, I did it with a group of people at our, at our
local church, and we decided that we would go through and we would
study chapter three, verse 16 of every Book of the Bible, so we
started with Genesis 3:16, and then Exodus 3:16 and we continued
through until we got to Revelation 3:16 and, and I told you that I had
gone to Lutheran schools as a child, so I had been exposed to the
Bible, but I never really felt that there was any part of it that I
knew well. This way I would, I would have some 60 verses of the Bible
that, that I would really have nailed. I could say I knew Genesis 3:16
rather thoroughly because I could go to Stanford library and I could
check out all the commentaries on the Book of Genesis and there was
only a few pages to read that would tell me what, what's important
about Genesis 3:16. So, the sampling idea was not, was a big, was a
big win, not so much for understanding the Bible so much, but for
understanding the secondary literature, for understanding the
commentaries about the Bible. You could, you could pretty well see how
opinions changed during, during the centuries about, about these
different verses and, and you could see that people, a lot of people
had different insights and other people hadn't done their homework
very well, and so on, but you could, you could get a pretty good idea
on these thousands and thousands and thousands of books written about
the Bible as to, as to what their slant was if you just happened to
know a, a few of the, a few parts to probe into. Anyway, this, this
was a surprisingly effective way to learn something about the Bible
and, and so, it's one of these moments again, where I wake up in the
middle of the night, and I say, hey, this would be, this would be a, a
good book to, to, where I could take these things that I had learned
in the library about the 3:16 verses and explain them to other people,
that, you know, it was, it was a story that I think other people would
enjoy learning about as well.)

