## [73 - Writing a book about the Bible: 3:16 (Part 2)](http://webofstories.com/play/17132)

So I wrote to Hermann Zapf, who by then was a good friend, and I said,
Hermann, I got this idea for a crazy book called "3:16", can you do
the cover for me. I want you to make the most beautiful three that's
ever been designed in the history of the world, and the most beautiful
colon, the most beautiful one, the most beautiful six and then I can
have my book and it it will look great, saying 3:16. And, so Hermann
wrote back enthusiastically saying, you know, and he'd also taken a
couple of the verses of the Bible, that he'd found in his German Bible
and he, he did it with his calligraphy, and he's one of the greatest
calligraphers of all time, and then he said, you know, Don, I know
hundreds of calligraphers around the world, I could, I could get those
people to, to contribute a page to your book, and each one, each one
could do these, these verses. Well, as I said, graphic designers turn
out to be the nicest people in the world, and he was going to
introduce me to even more of them this way. So, he, while I'm in
Boston, and cleaning house and things like this, I also go to the
Boston Public Library and to the Christian Science Bible Museum and
over Harvard Andover Theological Library and, and study, and copy down
all the different translations of these verses that I can find and,
and read as, and you know, start reading the commentaries on the
verses, so that I can really research the, the subject much better
than I had done cursorily in the '70s. And, Hermann made, made the
calligraphy for the, the verse John 3:16, which is the one that, the
reason we chose 3:16, it's the most famous verse in the Bible by its
number. People in the Super Bowl always hold up signs saying John 3:16
and it's sort of a capsule review of the gospel and, and I chose
Hermann to be the calligrapher for that verse, and he, he provided me
with a sample page, showing his, his rendition of John 3:16. So, while
I'm in Boston, I get the sample page printed at a good printer, and,
and then Hermann and I drafted a letter to these 60 calligraphers
around the world, the best in their, in their respective countries,
inviting them to contribute their pages for the other, for the other
verses. So, this was a project that I had time to do while I was in
Boston, and, and I spent a lot of time in the Boston public libraries
and these other libraries, reading what I could, about what people,
what people's comments were on these, on these verses, that I, this, I
was, by the time the end of my sabbatical, the end of Jill's
sabbatical occurred, which I was in the middle of the Old Testament,
let me think, I was just, yes, I was just getting into Song of Solomon
at that time and then we drove across country to get back to
California and, and I stopped off in Yale for a couple of days to use
the, the divinity school library there, and did the book of Isaiah and
Jeremiah and I stopped off in Pennsylvania, you know, Pittsburgh
Theological Seminary, different places coming across country, working
on this. And then I got back to Stanford and I still had a, a few more
years to go through the New Testament and we got great libraries out
here, Stanford Library, Berkeley Graduate Theological Union Library,
and so it was a weekend project for several more years after that, to
see what the story of these 3:16s would, would be.)

