## [74 - Writing a book about the Bible: 3:16 (Part 3)](http://webofstories.com/play/17133)

I got the artwork though, from the world's calligraphers. That all
arrived while we were in Boston, and it was coming in, it was, it was
like Christmas every, every day, because we would get another
beautiful letter from somebody with, with their contributions to the
book. And so, the artwork was so great, I tried to make the quality of
my accompanying texts somewhere that would approach the quality of the
artwork I was receiving. I spent some time then, on weekends for the
next several years, and then it occurred to me, I had better digitize
this art, because the world was getting a little more digital all the
time, and a company called Adobe Systems had been founded and I called
up, I called up John Warnock, the cofounder of Adobe and by a
serendipity, he answered the phone. I tried it many times since then,
it never worked. But this day, you know, he answered the phone. I
said- John, I've got this, I've got some great artwork and, and I
think I'd like to capture it in digital form and we want to make a
poster which puts the artwork in a different size. Is it possible to
do this with any computer software? And he said- John, he said Don,
I've got just the thing for you, we have a program we're working on
called Photoshop, and, and we've got, you know, Streamline, you know,
it turned out to be a kind of a dud, but that's what he, you know, he
liked it at the time and, and he said, so, come on out and use our
equipment, bring your artwork with you. So, during the summer of 1989
I went over and I was, I was the night watchman at Adobe Systems. I
worked in their art department and I had about 50 Macintoshes in a
room every night when most people were home. I could, I could be
running my, Photoshop was really not anywhere near beta test stage yet
at that point, but, and I got to work with the man, Tom, I just called
him Tom, from Michigan, who, who was the main implementer and, so we
got some of the bugs out of Photoshop at that period, but anyway, I
could use the artwork from my "3:16" book at Adobe and after, after
several, a couple of months, I had, I had it all in form that I like,
ready to, ready to do the, Macintosh were very slow at the time, and
dealing with a file of two or three megabytes was a heroic effort. You
could start Photoshop going on a, on a filtering operation on one
machine, and then five minutes later, it would be ready for the next
operation, so that's why I could go to another Macintosh, it's
something like a chess master playing a simultaneous tournament. You
make a move on one board and then, you go to, you know, you go on to
the next thing. So, but I'm getting this artwork slowly through the
press this way and it takes also a long time to transmit these files
to the, to the printer, but they had, they had what they called a RIP
in those days, a raster image processor, and you could, you could
print the films that I could use for the, for the book, and I got a, I
went to Singapore to see the book through the press, and, and I was
expecting that, that the, that I might have one or two readers who,
who were touched by the book and liked it, and that would make my,
make the whole project worthwhile and my wishes were fulfilled within
a week of the publication. It was amazing. I was expecting, you know,
to have a lot of negative reactions to the book, actually, because
why, why is a computer scientist doing something that he has no right
to be doing, writing about the Bible, you know, would I, would I read
a book by a theologian about programming, you know, and the only thing
I could, I could do that a theologian couldn't do, is I can, I can in
my book, commend theologians for having done their work well, in many
cases. You know, I can, I can give a testimonial while they can't do
that because they obviously have an axe to grind, but, but as an
outsider, I can at least direct people, saying, you know, here's
something really cool that, and so that's one thing that I could
do. But anyway, I, I found this weekend project was kind of an
enriching thing and I am so glad it turned out so well as it, as well
as it has.)

