## [75 - Giving a lecture series on science and religion at MIT](http://webofstories.com/play/17134)

On the subject of religion I wanted to, I might as well go ahead a
little bit and say that, you know, not only did I, okay, so I'm
publishing this book and I'm thinking that people are mostly going to
say that Knuth is off his rocker because he's publishing a book about
the Bible and what he does well is computer science, are we going to
be able to trust him anymore and so on. But the reaction was, to my
face anyway, was quite the opposite and a lot of people seemed to like
the book. And the most surprising thing was at the, in 1999, or
actually it was a year earlier when I got a letter from MIT inviting
me to give a series of lectures about science and religion, and, well,
this is something I'm obviously unqualified to do but it was hard to
just turn down the letter and say forget it because, well, it was sort
of something that I thought about a lot during my life and I thought
maybe some of the experiences I had could be relevant to other people
who are wrestling with the same things in their minds and so if I was
ever going to talk about these things in my life that was one thing or
would I feel incomplete if I didn't do something about it. On the
other hand I certainly didn't want this to be my career where I'm, you
know, not going out on a religious circuit or something. But on
balance I figured, okay, let's think of it as a win-win situation,
I'll go and hope that the Force is with me and I can say something of
interest to people and if I was ever going to do it one off and once
in my life where could I, where better than in Boston where I had
spent most of the time in the library studying and looking at these
theological works and where I got an audience at MIT, you know, ideal
place to have an, to make an influence if there's any such place. But
they had asked me to give a series of six public lectures, an hour and
a half each, and that's, you know, I have some standards where I
didn't know if I had that much to say obviously. So I decided okay,
what I'll do is I will prepare only half of these lectures and the
other half will be Q and A, will be just improvised responses to what
the audience says. And so if it doesn't go well so what, I tried, I
did it and it's over with. And if people think it's valuable then
that's so much the better. But I could, I wouldn't mind spending a few
months in Boston again, being a nice place to be and I had some things
I wanted to look up also in the libraries while I was there, so I said
yes and I went then in the fall for three months at the end of 1999 to
relearn the Boston experience. This time I didn't live in Back Bay, I
lived near Harvard Square, across the street from the Observatory, and
I took my bike every morning along the Charles River to MIT and got a
lot of, made a lot of friends there, you know, younger people that I
hadn't known before, doing computer science. And then I gave my six
public lectures and a couple of others too about a computer I designed
and things like that, other projects that were going on. And I got to,
you know, to also to go to New York City a few times and I visited
Will Shortz and was able to make use of being in the East. But here I
am giving these public lectures, the night that, let's see the day, I
think my first lecture I was competing with Jesse Ventura who was also
giving a lecture in Boston that same day but I still had standing room
only in this hall, about 400 people, it's not that big a hall but it
was amazing to me, and they came back the second week as well. And we
had, the lectures were sort of in the late afternoon, about three or
four times, and then a pause and then another three or four times at
weekly intervals. So in these lectures I didn't present the answers to
any of the deep problems, I just said well, look, I think computer
science is wonderful but it's not everything in life and so there's
other things that deserve attention. And some of the paradoxes that I
was confronted with, how did they affect me and sort of asking the
audience maybe next time it's their turn to give the lecture and, you
know, so it was more of like a focus group or something, no, it was
more just like saying let's for once in our life talk about things
that aren't our subject of expertise but just how we balance these
issues. And so I had great comments from the audience and great, it
was very stimulating to do these question/answer sessions and I also
learned a lot from the people that I met there because there were
people from many different backgrounds. It was, again, kind of a plus
thing but certainly nothing that I wanted to do for the rest of my
life, I've got to focus on "The Art of Computer Programming", that's
where I can do something unique.)

