## [76 - Back to work at Stanford and taking early retirement](http://webofstories.com/play/17135)

At the end of 1986 my sabbatical was over and I was still working on
this book, "3:16", on weekends but it was back to my normal professor
life. Of course I got to Stanford and I plunged in as always and
resumed teaching my classes and I had great graduate students and-
however I was having almost no time to work on "The Art of Computer
Programming" and I don't know if any of the people watching this also
go on their sabbaticals but one thing that happens when you get back
home is people keep asking you- oh, aren't you glad to be back home?
And they kept asking me this for the next year and the next year after
that and I, you know, I would always smile and say, you know, yes but
really I didn't feel quite so good to be back home because I wasn't
getting anything done on "The Art of Computer Programming". And time
is ticking here, I'm 50 years old, I've got lots of work to do yet on
"The Art of Computer Programming". So at this time I'm 50 years old in
1988, so, like I go through a whole year and I'm making two days of
progress on "The Art of Computer Programming", at that rate how long,
you know, I'll have to be 150 years old before I'm done writing the
book. So I decided really this wasn't a sustainable situation anymore,
what I would have to do is figure out how to spend the rest of my life
and finish "The Art of Computer Programming". So I came to a reluctant
decision in the summer of 1988 that I should retire very early from
Stanford and I should devote the rest of my time to finishing what I
really do best, "The Art of Computer Programming". You know, since
1962 I've been gathering tens of thousands of papers, read them, made
notes on them, organized this, all the things I think are really
important to have in a book and I wasn't having any opportunity to
really get that stuff ready. So I wrote a letter to our chair of our
department and I said Nils I would like to retire as of January 1
1990, a year and some months from now, and I don't feel right about, I
don't like the idea of a professor who's going to just write books and
not do the rest of the job that you do at a university including not
only teaching and advising students and serving on committees but also
fundraising and many other, correspondence, answering people's
queries. And I said, so I go and see why, but still I have to write
"The Art of Computer Programming" or I'll never really be happy and
it's going to take me many years of work, so I'm asking that you find
a replacement for me at Stanford, I wouldn't want to take a salary for
something, for not doing the work of- And then, so we met with the
Dean and the Provost and they first tried to convince me to just carry
on as I was and I said no, really, this book is a special thing that I
think makes it different from all the other hundreds of professors
that you've got, you know, this book is a little bit more important
than all the other professors' books, I'm telling them. Well, the Dean
checked around with some people and he said well, the books are pretty
good anyway so he thought maybe he could get somebody to endow a chair
by which I would, I have only the responsibility to write the books. I
said no, rather get somebody else to do what I was doing instead and
then let me take early retirement. Well, early retirement at age 52
was not possible, what was possible was that I could take a leave of
absence for three years until I was 55 and then I could retire. But
that's what happened, January 1, I didn't anymore have to serve on
committees or raise money. On the other hand I deeply regretted not
being able to teach anymore and similarly advising graduate students,
that was something that has always been a special joy. In order to
account for the teaching we decided that I would give semi-regular
lectures called Computer Musings, which would be open to the public
and anybody could come, no credit would be issued for these lectures
but I would talk about whatever I thought was cool to talk about and
something that wasn't covered in Stanford's curriculum, and
periodically, we were going to shoot for once a month, I would do
these lectures. And I could have a title and that's great, I don't
know if I'm the only Stanford professor who was able to choose his own
title but I became Professor of The Art of Computer Programming, and
that's my official title. And that's The Art with a capital T. And
that didn't mean I had a salary but it meant that I had a nice title
and very nice stationery and I became Professor Emeritus of The Art of
Computer Programming, officially then when I was 55 years old. This
gave me medical insurance and also I have, in fact, a secretary and an
office and all the library access and everything I needed to do the
books right. But I'm not in anybody's inner loop where they're
depending on me to do something, like I can take a day like today and
never show up and nobody will be the worse.)

