## [77 - Taking up swimming to help me cope with stress](http://webofstories.com/play/17136)

I felt very stressed about this time and I was having all kinds of
symptoms of flaky health and didn't know what was on and I think it
was because of the anxiety of this big change in my life since I'm
going from one phase to another. And so I even talked to a
psychiatrist a couple of times at my doctor's recommendation because
the doctor thought I was having too many symptoms. And the
psychiatrist said well, you get so many stress points for this and so
many stress points for this and you've got way too many stress points
so why don't you try swimming regularly. And I had never really done
much exercise up to that point, I was always sitting and writing or,
you know, in Boston I could do a lot of walking because we didn't have
a car there but most of the time, you know, I never understood why
physical education was a required subject in college, I just, you
know, I was the score-keeper but I didn't really ever play basketball
myself. But it was a required subject so I had to do some of these
callisthenics or whatever. Well now I could see that really the way
the human body is designed it's okay to have your heart moving a
little bit every once in a while and I started swimming three or four
times a week in 1990 and all of a sudden my back was feeling good, I
was feeling good, other problems were clearing up and, well- I was
also discouraged though that Stanford hadn't found a replacement for
me and they still haven't. I mean they did some searches but the
professors they identified decided to stay where they were and so
really that part of the bargain Stanford never lived up to.)

