## [78 - My graduate students and my 64th birthday](http://webofstories.com/play/17137)

At this time in 1990 my final two or three students finished their PhD
and so that gave a me a grand total of 28 students, mathematicians say
that 28 is a perfect number. It's just a bit of a joke but if you
consider all the divisors of 28 it's 14, 7, 4, 2, 1, and that adds up
to 28 so it's called a perfect number. And remarkable 28 students, 28
different personalities from many different parts of the world, about
half of them went into academic careers and half of them are in
industry. For example, the people who worked with me on TeX, Michael
Plass became one of the key programmers for Xerox in their DocuTech
systems and many other of their desktop publishing system. Frank Liang
went on to be one of the key people in Microsoft Word and many of the
students that I had in the typography program, again, were very, have
leadership roles in the software industry for printing. Bob Sedgewick
was chair of Princeton Computer Science Department, Jeff Vitter chair
of the Purdue Computer Science Department, now Dean there, so I have a
lot of academic students. Others are back in their native countries,
in Spain, Brazil and, so all in all I'm really grateful that I had so
many great students who pretty much taught me as much as I taught
them. While I could take credit for their successes, it's really
their, they were great and are great. Only one of my students was a
sad case and he seems to have committed suicide after an unhappy life
but 1 out of 28 I think is a pretty good score card. And I still see
at least half of them because they're in this area now. It reminds me,
I might as well mention a huge surprise on my 64th birthday when
people came from all over the world for a two-day celebration and Jill
had kept it totally secret from me and I just couldn't believe, every
time I'd look another way I'd see yet another amazing person who
came. Why 64 years birthday? Well, to a computer scientist the number
64, the powers of 2 are the most important numbers, so after 32 then
the next interesting number is 64 and after that 128 is the next
interesting number. So I doubt if I'll have another more appropriate
birthday time and so we call it my millionth birthday since in the
binary number system you write 64 as one followed by six
zeroes. That's when I got to see lots and lots of my students, so the
thought came up now.)

