## [79 - My class on Concrete Mathematics](http://webofstories.com/play/17138)

Now I'm retired but then I still can't go full time to work on "Art of
Computer Programming" because there's other projects that I really
have to finish, for example, I told you about the "3:16" book which I
was doing on weekends, I wanted to get that done. And so I was doing
that, at this time it was just at the end of the '80s, it was
published I think beginning of 1990. And then I had introduced a class
at Stanford called Concrete Mathematics, I started it out in 1970 I
think, maybe 1971, probably, well, it might have been in the fall '70
or spring of '71. Anyway a brand new course in the curriculum because
there was no- Students at Stanford couldn't learn the kind of
mathematics that I found necessary for computer science work. And I'd
been thinking a lot about what it was that I had needed as writing the
first parts of "Art of Computer Programming" that I hadn't been taught
myself in school. And there was also a big to-do at that time about,
some people were complaining mathematics was getting too abstract,
that it was too detached from reality so I could make a little joke
about that by calling it Concrete Mathematics, although I said that
the word concrete doesn't really mean the opposite of abstract, it's a
combination of the word continuous and discrete. We had this course
Concrete Mathematics, the students were enthusiastic and I gave it
over and over again. Sometimes we had guest lectures when I'm on
sabbatical or when I'm away somebody else would come and teach it on
the model that was established. And one of the ways I always did
teaching at Stanford, I was inspired by George Pólya where I let the
students do the talking in class instead of me telling them what's in
the book. I assumed they all know how to read and so when they're in
class we're going to do things that aren't in the book. So I would
always run my classes by, almost as if it were a language class
instead of a computer or math class where I would present a question
to the students and the students were supposed to figure out how to
solve the problem or at least to make the next step towards solving a
problem, or to try and fail and then we would learn how to recover
from failure. You know, you don't find books saying how to recover
from bad guesses and so we could learn that in class. In order to, so
that the students didn't have to take notes in these classes I always
had my teaching assistants take notes of what the students said and
then they would quickly publish these notes afterwards and as a sort
of a transcript of the session.)

