## [8 - The Potrzebie System of Weights and Meausures and the Alfred E. Neuman crossword](http://webofstories.com/play/17067)

While I’m on the subject of *Mad Magazine*, I might as well mention
that then **I did a project in my senior year**, which was submitted to
the Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, well, no, first to the Westinghouse
Science Talent Search, which is now called the Intel Science Talent
Search or something, but it’s a nationwide competition, and it was
called the Potrzebie System of Weights and Measures. This is a Polish
word that was very popular in *Mad Magazine*, and I decided to base a
system of weights and measures that was going to be better than the
metric system. It was based on the thickness of *Mad Magazine* number
26, or something like this, and that was taken as one potrzebie of
length. And then we had, you know, a kilo potrzebie was 1,000 of
those, and a fershlugginer potrzebie was a million — and a farshimmelt
potrzebie one millionth. We had units of time, weight, everything, in
the system.

And it **won honorable mention in this Science Talent
Search**, and also was, I did some demos at the Academy of Sciences; it
won an award in Wisconsin. I submitted it them to ***Mad Magazine*, and
they published it**; they paid me $25, for it, and it came out in,
during the spring of my Freshman year in college, and this was my
first technical publication, so it is listed on my vita, you know, and
publication number one is the Potrzebie System of Weights and
measures, and it was published later in paperback in one of the *Mad*
reprints, and it, and I used it as a basis of running for student
government in college, and it failed miserably, you know, I didn’t get
elected.

I also sent a sequel to *Mad*, which was a crossword
puzzle. One of their, the Alfred E. Neuman figure is one of the, was
featured on lots of their articles, and this silly boy’s face with the
missing tooth, and when I looked at his teeth, I could see, you know,
white squares and black squares, reminding me of a crossword
puzzle. So I added more white squares and black squares up in his
forehead area, and where his hair is, and I filled, and I made that
into **a crossword puzzle with *Mad*-type clues**, like, you know, “blank,
me worry?”, or something like this, and I submitted that, and they
rejected that, you know, they didn’t want, but I’ve still got it, and
later on when we get to writing, 

I’m hoping that I’ll someday publish
a book called *Selected Papers on Fun and Games*. We will not only
reprint my first technical article on the Potrzebie System, but also
the one that was rejected by *Mad*, and we will see the; people will
decide whether they, you know, will be able to decide now whether they
made the right decision in rejecting it. 

So yeah, I like to see things
sort of out of the box as well as in the box.

