## [80 - Writing a book on my Concrete Mathematics class](http://webofstories.com/play/17139)

So by the time 1990 rolled around I had almost 20 years of these
transcripts of class discussions that had taken place in this Concrete
Mathematics course and it was natural and almost sort of mandatory
that this legacy be passed on to other generations, so I wanted to
write the book, "Concrete Mathematics", describing how the course had
evolved and what had been learned. One of the most conscientious
teaching assistants was Oren Patashnik who had not only transcribed
the class sessions but then he had drafted, I think, almost all the
chapters of the book as handouts to the students so that they could
use it in one of the years that I wasn't teaching. So I could go from
his notes and rewrite them but using his insights into pedagogy as I
did this book. And Ron Graham who was the most successful teacher of
the course when I was gone, he'd come in two or three times and the
classes, the people loved him so much when they took it that the
Concrete Maths class for those years would have annual reunions
afterwards. And he also then started teaching it at Princeton as
well. So I had then this Concrete Maths book with two co-authors, Oren
Patashnik and Ron Graham. Usually when I write a book I finish about
one page a day, I mean if the book is 365 pages long it takes me a
year, if it's 500 pages long it takes me a year and a half. In this
case I overdid it and I got the 600 page book done in little less than
a year and it was not a sustainable working style but I really wanted
so much to get back to "The Art of Computer Programming" that Jill
gave me a year where I didn't have to be quite as, what you'd call
responsible a husband as, you know, I would be allowed to be, you
know, less of a human being for a year so that I could get this
project done and then I could make up for it some other time. So
anyway that was a crash project, which was done under some strain but
I had the stimulation of the beautiful mathematical material that I
was writing up and of Oren Patashnik's draft which was in a refreshing
style that we could make this book a sort of California book. One of
the most fun things about the Concrete Math book is a feature that I
had copied from Stanford's, well, early '70s Stanford University had a
really innovative thing for prospective students. They put out a book
called "Approaching Stanford" that was written by former students and
in the main part of the pages of "Approaching Stanford" it would have
this, what you would expect to find from a university, telling how
great the place is and the weather and all this- faculty being great
and the students and everything. And then in the margins there's this
graffiti where the students are saying what it really is, you know,
like Stanford dorms are like a zoo without a keeper or something like
this, but they had the true clues about what it's like written by
students. And Stanford put this out and sent this out with its
literature to prospective students. And so I thought, okay, let's do
this with the math book too, let's have graffiti in the math book,
let's let the students comment on what they think about the subject
and, you know, it turned out that this idea certainly has caught on
because the book "Concrete Math", let me say first of all, if anybody
finds an error in any of my books I pay them for it, you know, if
they're the first to find the error I send them a check. And any
errors in this graffiti were caught immediately, it was clear that all
the readers were reading the graffiti, the errors in the rest of the
book, you know, maybe it would take three or four years before
somebody finds it but if there's anything at all that they could
comment on in the graffiti section that was done. And also the book
has been translated into about ten other languages and in almost all
the cases the translators also translated the graffiti, they thought
this was a vital part of the book. So the book doesn't take itself too
seriously but it's still, it turned out to be a way to contribute also
to the content of the book because one of the comments could be, could
say, you know, you'd better skim this next few pages because you don't
want to bother so much with it until you've been through it once
before. And then there were other, some of them were pretty corny
jokes but we censored them a little bit and so it was, anyway, on
balance that was- So we have a California book about mathematics, a
book that shows the informal style of Stanford classes as well as what
I think is a personal manifesto of the way to do mathematics, the way
I think that I love to do, work with the kind of maths that I needed
to study computer programs at any rate.)

