## [81 - The Stanford GraphBase and updating Volumes One to Three of The Art of Computer Programming](http://webofstories.com/play/17140)

I finished the "3:16" book, I finished "Concrete Mathematics", I still
can't get going back on "The Art of Computer Programming" because
there's one more thing I have to do and it's called the Stanford
GraphBase. And this is a collection of literate programs that are to
be used for standard examples that would be used in Volume Four of
"The Art of Computer Programming". So that took another couple of
years to get that done right, it was necessary to have this out first
before the book was there so that the, I'd be able to finish other
projects with other people around the world contributing since they
could use the Stanford GraphBase to help. Finally then, about 1995 I'm
able to open the door of the room where I had been throwing all the
new material for "The Art of Computer Programming" for 15 years. While
I'm working on TeX I really had no time, much to think about it so
when I get something in the mail relevant to Volume Four, Volume Five
or so, I would just throw it into a pile and then I had boxes and
boxes, so finally it had accumulated to about 17 linear feet of
material. And besides I had all of the material I had collected in
previous years, so I decided I just had to reorganise it all and that
took another year, more than a year to go through everything, every
scrap of paper that had come in and put it in a good place, make a
computer index so that I could find everything, make, put it into
thousands of little file folders and also correct all the errors known
in Volumes One, Two and Three. People had been writing to me, I had
letters from 1981, 1982 that I hadn't answered yet, reporting on
errors in Volumes One, Two and Three, so I wrote checks to all these
people with interest from the day of the, you know, I had a little
computer program that computed these interest rates and I had a
mistake in it so I think I paid a bit too much interest there. But
anyway I sent out hundreds of checks and had a bigger, errata list for
"The Art of Computer Programming" for Volumes One, Two, and Three and
this I could typeset with TeX and have it typeset correctly. All these
years people were still buying the books at a steady rate in the book
stores, they're buying like Volume One, Volume Three, they're buying
the edition that was done in the '70s but, you know, like the 30th
printing, the 40th printing. And it's still, each of the books are
still selling at a rate of about 4 000 books a year, something like
that. And Volume Two was the edition of 1981, the one that I couldn't
stand the numerals in but the mathematical material was okay. When my
"Computers and Typesetting" series of books, those five volumes came
out, that was all done with the new fonts, with the correct typography
and so on. With my "Concrete Mathematics" book I was able to use a new
font designed by Herman Zapf and for the "3:16" book I had another
font that I'd worked on so I had- So it was only "The Art of Computer
Programming" that had ugly typography by this time and still I didn't
want to, you know, it's been taking me so long to get back to writing
Volume Four, how could I stop and redo Volumes One, Two and Three
without waiting still longer. So, to the rescue came Silvio Levy who
lives in Berkeley, who was very active in many projects of Mathematics
and he's now the librarian at the Math Sciences Research
Institute. But he was a big fan of TeX and he and I created the CWEB
system of literate programming using C as a programming language
instead of Pascal. So Sylvio, some- the errata list, finds One, Two
and Three and he decided, pro bono, that he would typeset Volumes One,
Two and Three in TeX and he would ask the publishers to pay him a
nominal amount for this to which they, of course, readily agreed. And
he and his wife, Sheila, did the proofreading and they did a
marvellous job going through all three volumes and incorporating all
the errata in my errata list. And then it didn't take me long to, I
mean it took me three or four months, but not really anything near
what it would have taken for me to do all the work myself, so that we
could have, finally, as 1997/1998, we could finally have "The Art of
Computer Programming" brought up to date with decent typesetting and
with all the 20 years of improvements that had been in my files, now
incorporated into the text.)

