## [82 - Getting started on Volume Four of The Art of Computer Programming](http://webofstories.com/play/17141)

I'm ready then to start finally the work on Volume Four but it still
isn't out, right, so what's happening? Well, in fact, about 400 pages
of it are out now in paperback and it takes me more than a day a page,
I'm not able to convince myself to settle for just reproducing things
that I find in my files but every time I look at something I see that
there's a chance to improve it, and that takes me another few days. So
I'm adding a lot of material that doesn't appear in the literature as
I'm writing Volume Four. I can't sustain that either I know but I tell
myself that the parts of the book I'm writing now are so fundamental
that they're different from the parts that will follow and that next
year I will just be putting together things that are not very highly
original. But, in fact, like tonight I'll be finishing the index for a
new section and this is about 60 pages and out of the 60 pages I think
they're, you know, well, 15 pages of it is stuff that hasn't appeared
in the literature and quite a few different ideas are there, and the
same in these 400 pages of Volume Four that have come out, I can't
resist going beyond the sources that I see when it's such a
fundamental part of the subject. So I'm not the, at the rate I'm going
it's pretty clear that I won't I finish the whole project until I'm 90
years old. So, even though I'm not putting on, you know, I'm not going
beyond the table of contents that I jotted down on that day in January
1962 when I was asked to write a book on complilers, I still have sort
of that table of contents, the field has grown dramatically and
there's so much good stuff I can't resist putting in. The, let me see-
So that's my life right now, pretty much going through my files for
Volume Four. All the things I'm reading, I keep on reading more things
in the library but then that suggests ideas that I put together and I
contact people around the world for their help in trying to debug the
ideas and to check that I got things straight. And hopefully I'll be
able to continue this for a long time. It's fun because I get to put
together the work of authors that didn't know about each other's work,
so then I get a chance to make a natural connection between those
things and I love to find a way to present material. I know that I'm
getting to be an old man now and my style isn't as sprightly as it
used to be when I'm young but I still have the 3000 pages of
manuscript I wrote in the 60s that I can use those sentences to make,
to keep a little bit of youth in there. Still I know that the material
is not an easy read, people will maybe keep it in the bathroom or
something like that or they'll have the book on their shelf just to
prove that, just to imply to somebody that they could understand
it. The subject is not, there's no Royal Road to some of this
material, some of it is inherently difficult but pretty much I'm
enthusiastic about the way things are going. When I, like this morning
I was making the index and I see parts that I had to struggle with
when I wrote but now when they come out it looks like a good story
that I didn't- and the struggle, the fact that I was struggling with
it doesn't seem too obvious to me now.)

