## [83 - Two final major research projects](http://webofstories.com/play/17142)

Now I'm still able to do small research problems that I can solve in a
day or so but I knew that I'd never be able to work on a major
difficult problem, you know, as I'm working on "The Art of Computer
Programming", it's hard for me to give that up. So I found myself
working on two big projects, one of them at the end of the 80s and one
at the beginning of the 90s, which were sort of monographs. And the
first one, a project called "Axioms and Hulls" where I was studying
interesting problems in geometry, in convex geometry, and I got to
work on that while I was in Singapore getting the book, "3:16",
printed, this turned out to be a little book of 100 and some
pages. And then I started looking at the problem of random graphs, a
very fascinating phenomenon where sort of a big bang occurs when you
start out with points that are totally disconnected and then you
choose two points at random and add a connection between them, and you
keep doing this. And as soon as you pass the number of connections,
about half the number of points, suddenly almost everything almost
always becomes connected, a large part of it becomes connected that's
called the Giant Component. And I had been studying this problem with
Boris Pittel, a visitor to my research project at the end of the '80s
and we got some preliminary results that seemed kind of exciting
mathematically, and so I was writing up the paper and I realized that
there were even more results around the corner, in fact, the more I
looked at the problem yet another beautiful pattern seemed to
emerge. So, as it turned out, it was it finally developed into not
only was I studying the Giant Component but we wrote a research paper
which was a giant paper, it filled the entire issue of a journal. And
I had three co-authors, Boris Pittel, who I already mentioned and
Svante Janson, Tomasz ?uczac from Poland. We all kept finding more
things about this subject and challenging each other to do yet another
amazing step in the exploration of this phenomenon that was coming
through. So, in a way it was like having written two more PhD theses
at the end of my research career, these two monographs, the one on
Axioms and Hulls and the other one about the Giant Component. And this
was then my swan song, you know, after which I said, okay, now I've
been there and done that and all the fun problems now I'll leave to
other people if I can't solve them in a day. Or I try to give myself
an hour but after an hour sometimes I think well, maybe another hour
I'll be able to do it. So from now on if I think of a new problem and
I can't see how to solve it I will pass it on to somebody else and
say, don't you think this is a cool thing and let them have the fun of
solving it.)

