## [84 - My love of writing and a lucky life](http://webofstories.com/play/17143)

As you can see from my comments that I'm addicted to writing, I love
the idea of communicating ideas to other people. I think, in every
case, the books that I've written were things where I had learned
about some phenomenon that I thought was just too good to keep to
myself and so I wanted other people to share in the joy of reading
it. So it turns out then that I have more than 20 books in print now
and that's, you know, so many that I doubt that there's anybody in the
world who's read more than half of them. And I sometimes think what
tragedy it would be if there were ten people in the world like me
because we wouldn't have time to read each other's books, you know, it
doesn't scale up. Still, you know, there's a story behind every book,
there's a story behind every paper that I wrote and it was not a, you
know, I don't understand this idea of publish or perish because I
never wrote any of these papers because I felt that I needed it for my
career or something like this. It was always because I thought there
was a cool idea that was just waiting to be communicated. A guy asked
me two or three weeks ago, it was a project that he's doing for his
grade school teacher, he was supposed to take videos of some people
that he knew just a little bit and ask them the following question; if
you could do one thing over in your life and do it differently, what
would it be? And, you know, I'd never been asked that question before
and after five minutes I gave up. I mean I'm probably getting
forgetful at my age but I just couldn't think of a single thing in my
life that I regretted, it was, I mean I just feel too absolutely too
lucky. I came along riding the crests of different waves, I mean I was
born at just the right time when computers were beginning to arrive in
the world and I just happened to have this background, this
combination of skills that made my peculiar way of thinking in harmony
with what you need in order to make a machine do tricks. So if I had
been born ten years earlier, ten years later the whole thing would be
so much different. I was early enough in the computer field that the
problems were easier then and I could solve them. We creamed off of
the easy ones, now those people who are younger have only harder ones
left to go or have to look at problems in completely new areas which
of course are very exciting, with things like robotics and other types
of applications that are now opened up because the fundamental, easier
problems have provided now another level of interesting problems that
are attackable. But I just can't imagine being luckier or having had
a, even though many of the things I did throughout my life weren't
popular and not everything turned to gold, I just can't think of
anything I would rather have done differently, and so it was very hard
for me to answer this boy's question.)

