## [85 - Coping with cancer](http://webofstories.com/play/17144)

Last year I learned that I had cancer and hopefully now we found it at
a very early stage so that it won't be, it won't prevent me from
getting too much more of "The Art of Computer Programming" written but
I didn't know at the end of last year how bad the cancer was. And so I
just want to mention a little bit about this story because it's
something that happens to- everybody's going to die but you never know
what is going to finally do for you and everyone's going to have to
face this kind of thing once in a while so I just want to mention a
little bit about how it affected me last year. I'm now at the age
where I attend a lot of funerals of people who I've known and my
colleague, Bob Floyd, died a couple of years ago and I have, every
once in a while, wondered about how to face death. It's certainly
inevitable but I always found that I was ready to die if I had
finished a book but not a week before finishing a book. You know, that
would be too, too terrible if I couldn't finish the project. Then when
it was done then, okay, it's all right again for a little while. After
my father died in the '70s I was confronted with this issue and had to
sort of resolve it in my mind as to how I should take it and I
remember it took about a month before I could go an hour at a time
without thinking about death and the questions, but I thought it
through then and got a little more comfortable with it. Now in recent
times I've known of a lot of cases where someone died and we said, oh,
but it was a happy ending because just a week before they were able to
meet with their children or their friends and sort of get their
affairs in order, you know, they had time for kind of a nice summing
up and everything was as good as one could hope for. So, well, the
reason I'm saying this is because last year after I had the diagnosis
of this prostate cancer we scheduled surgery for December, but I had
meanwhile been invited to give important speeches in Europe,
especially at the 150th anniversary of the founding of the ETH in
Zurich, the main Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, I think it's
like the MIT of Europe. And so I was a featured speaker there and
interviewed by all the media and so on and I didn't, of course I
didn't tell my hosts anything about this surgery that was going to be
taking place, but it was just like, you know, my talk went well, the
people were all enthusiastic about the things I'd been doing, I didn't
have an enemy in the world, I was sort of at a summit. So if I was
going to die in December in this surgery it would be one of these
happy endings that I had known about in the other, even more than that
because here I was, I mean there were profiles coming out about my
work and following my talk, at Zurich I got an honorary doctorate, it
was like my 31st honorary doctors degree, more than Ronald Reagan has
received, not as many as Bob Hope but still it was, you know, amazing
for computer science. So I'd achieved all the, everything except
finishing "The Art of Computer Programming" that I could have hoped to
achieve in life. And then after Switzerland I flew back and had a week
with my children and grandchildren where we all were, had a great
time, and so if I was going to die this again would be just the
perfect way for it to end. And so the way I looked at it was really
that I've had every possible advantage and gift, so if I was going to
die in the surgery that would be okay, that would be just, you know, a
sort of a- I wasn't expecting that I should be upset if it didn't go
well, but if it did go well, then I would just say okay, this means
that I have a chance to do some more as a gift but not as a right, not
as something that I'm entitled to if you can understand what I'm
saying. And so, and it's not just something that I was saying but, you
know, I really, when I went into the hospital I didn't have any plans
as to what I would do when I would get home again afterward, I just
thought okay, if I get home I'll think about it then. And so I'm in
this surgery for four or five hours and unconscious and then all of
sudden I hear happy noises and people saying, oh, you did fine. Okay
so, well great, I'm still alive, maybe I can go a little further. It's
no fun being recovering from surgery but still everything went as well
as could be expected and here I am today and I'll be starting a little
bit of radiation therapy next month as a precaution but the prognosis
looks pretty good. So every day from now on where my health is good I
consider as something that, as a special gift, gives me a chance to do
some more of what I do best, is trying to take the things that people
in computer science have discovered and put them together into a story
that can be understood by some of those who can't understand the
original papers.)

