## [86 - Honorary doctorates](http://webofstories.com/play/17145)

I used to say that I accepted these doctor's degrees in order to make
my mother happy. And I think it did but after she died I still
accepted them so I knew that it meant something to me as well. But I
do think I don't have time to travel very much now but I have
travelled for the purpose of these- I guess I should write a book
about commencement addresses because I've sat through so many college
degree ceremonies, but it's important to the field of computer science
because we're a new kid on the block, computer science hasn't existed
for more than 40 years while other subjects have been going on for a
long, long time. And so when a university decides to award a doctorate
in the field of computer science this is good news for the field, that
places are giving more credence to the idea that we have a field that
stands on its own with respect to fundamental problems that it is
working on. So for me this, since I was one of the earliest, you know,
from the generation where somebody can give me an award where I can
sort of represent the field of computer science, so I consider these
degrees are more primarily for the field rather than for me
personally. My friend Bob Floyd always said that it was getting the
first award was the hardest, after that, people are always hesitant to
give an award to somebody who's never received an award before but
after the first one then it's all coasting. And he said he was going
to, he never got a PhD himself but he was going to get it by the green
stamp method, if he had enough letters addressed to him as Doctor
Floyd then he could submit that to some place and they would give him
an honorary doctorate.)

