## [87 - The importance of awards and the Kyoto Prize](http://webofstories.com/play/17146)

I think awards are important in a person's life to validate that other
people appreciate the work that goes into, you know, the things that I
do are fun but there's also parts of them that aren't fun and it's
pleasing to know that it's appreciated, so getting an award is
certainly a fine tradition. The first one of importance to me was to
get the Medal of Science from President Carter and this was totally
unexpected but it was my great privilege to be sitting next to Richard
Feynman when he got the Medal of Science from President Carter. And
when he, when, just before I went up to get it he went like this with
his elbow and said, okay Don, here's your big moment. Well, he's one
of my huge heroes, I knew him at Caltech and so this was a big day for
me for sure. Then some other prizes where I could represent computer
science, there was a prize called the Harvey Prize in Israel, again,
these are prizes that are open not only to computer scientists but
also to chemists, physicists, biologists, people of all scientific
disciplines. Some other prizes also were open to people from
humanities, I'm glad to say one of my doctorates is a doctor of
letters, I mean after I worked on Metafont I ought to have a doctor of
letters I figure. So this has been something that, I guess deep down,
gives me some satisfaction and encouragement to keep going. The
biggest prize of all of course was the Kyoto Prize which was about ten
years ago and that's a prize that is probably the best a computer
scientist can hope for, it recognises a lifetime achievement in the
field and it is offered to somebody in technology every three or four
years. I, at that time, I was able to bring my family and my wife's
family and my sister could come and my mother and father-in-law and
sister-in-law with my kids and spent several weeks in Japan so it was
also a good thing for the whole family. During that time, I was in
Japan for three weeks, I gave 13 lectures on 13 different subjects,
eight of which were prepared and five of which were improvised. I got
to meet the Emperor and Empress of Japan, you know, and wow, she is an
extremely impressive person. I got to meet my hero, Nob the greatest
puzzle expert and we could go to a hot baths together with him and his
family and so we could experience many, many parts of Japan and this
was another important highlight of my life.
 
And there's a nice, if I'm not mistaken, a nice tie-in to the
beginning of your career as it were in grade school in Milwaukee. You
donated some of the prize to your grade school.
 
That's right, the Kyoto Prize also comes with money, it's not as rich
quite as the Nobel Prize but it's enough to convince the world that
they thought twice before they gave the prize. And so it amounted to
about $400,000, and Jill and I didn't want this to ruin our life
because we were happy without the money so we didn't know what we, if
having this would be best. So we used 100,000 to pay for the trips of
our family and 100,000 went to my school where I had started the first
grade through eighth grade and 100,000 to Stanford and 100,000 to pay
for a new pipe organ at the church where I go here in Palo Alto.)

