## [88 - The pipe organ (Part 1)](http://webofstories.com/play/17147)

My father was a church organist and he was, in fact the day I was born
he was called to the hospital from the church service. And part of the
training of a Lutheran schoolteacher is also with music and he's quite
good at music. He played in the Chicago Worlds Fair, he gave a recital
in 1934, whatever the year was, he gave several recitals I have
programs of and I inherited some of his organ music. When I was young
I studied piano but my piano teacher also knew something about the
organ so when I was 12 years old I had a year of organ lessons instead
of piano lessons, and so I learned a little bit about the instrument
at that time. And I met E. Power Biggs, he came to Milwaukee to give a
concert that year. He sat in, I rode in the car with him to the
recital actually, I didn't know how famous a man he was, but he was
the man who brought organ music to recording in America. So that was
it though, I went back to piano, in high school I was playing the
piano with the, accompanying the band. In fraternity at all the
parties I was playing piano and we would sing a lot of songs, mostly
Broadway shows, tunes. And I enjoyed playing the piano, you know, it
took me, for example when we went to Norway for my first time away,
instead of renting a TV set we rented a piano and Jill and I played
four hands music with each other every night. So I've always liked
piano but in the 1960s when I'm at Caltech, somebody, we were singing
in the choir and somebody called me on Saturday and said Don, our
organist and choir director has just come down with a detached retina
and he's in the hospital, is it true that you took organ lessons once
when you were a teenager and can you fill in at tomorrow's service? So
I went to the church and I tried to remember how to play and on Sunday
I played the service and then, at that time, in order to recover from
a detached retina, you had to sit still for some months with your head
in, sort of rigid while the thing was healing, it was the way they did
it. So for the next six months I was the organist of a church
there. In Pasadena there was a great tradition of fine organ playing,
a man named Clarence Mader and many of his students were in the
churches around there so they had some of the best in the country
actually at the time. And so I started attending recitals of
organists, they also invited the best organists from the east to this
chapter of the American Guild of Organists and I began to realize that
there's a lot of really great literature for the organ. So I met a few
people who had organs in their home and I thought that was a cool
thing. So when I had my year in Princeton a large number of the best
organists in the country were headquartered in Princeton and I had
heard some of them in Pasadena while I was there so I took classes at
Westminster Choir College where these people were associated in
Princeton. I audited the classes, I found it was kind of strange as a
full professor going back to taking lessons again where somebody would
tell me what to do, this was quite a come down for somebody who'd been
used to being king of the- but anyway I had an excellent teacher in
Princeton and she gave me lots of good music that I could begin to
learn. So the idea was planted in me that pipe organ music is one of
the great pleasures of life.)

