## [89 - The pipe organ (Part 2)](http://webofstories.com/play/17148)

Since then I decided, okay, I got royalties from my books so I can use
this to acquire an organ in my home and so when we built this house we
told the architect of this dream that I would like to have a music
room in the house where we could have a pipe organ. And so even though
we didn't have the money to pay for it at that the time we put it into
the plans so that it would support three tons of weight in the front
room. And I went round talking to organ builders, the finest organ
builders that I knew at the time were in Denmark and a friend of mine,
Peter Naur at the University of Copenhagen, I visited him during the
year we were in Norway and spent a week talking to different organ
builders in Denmark. And boy, the gorgeous instruments that they
built, very few in America. If you're interested in anecdotes this is
the only time in my life I drank a cup of coffee and maybe that was
the wrong country in which to drink a cup of coffee, but that was the
only time, but after that I didn't want to try again. But the story is
this, I was at this organ builder and he didn't speak English very
well and I didn't speak German very well, we tried to communicate in
German and he served me coffee and I didn't know how to refuse so I
took the coffee. And every time he, but it tasted awful to me so every
time he would be looking at me though I either took a sip a little bit
or I'd at least rattle it in my cup so that he would know that I was
paying attention to the coffee. But then I did pour it into a plant at
the end when he wasn't looking, but that was my experience anyway. But
he's a great organ builder in Hillerød near Copenhagen. Well, I
didn't wind up though with a Danish organ because although I got a
proposal from the man that I liked the best it turned out that the way
the labor laws are set that you can't set a fixed price for anything,
it depends if inflation occurs then you have to pay more. And it was
going to be two years in advance so I would have to, you know, saying
well, no matter what happens to the economy I'm obliged to pay the
current salary in Danish currency. And there was a big problem about
shipping, so it turns out that the Danish solution wasn't the best. I
did though meet up with Larry Abbott and Pete Sieker, who have a shop
near UCLA, on one of my trips to southern California, and they built
four organs a year very fine and I had known, in fact they had built
one of the ones that I had seen in Pasadena when I was previously. And
so I worked with them and came back to Stanford and meanwhile here I
had worked with our own church and our church in Menlo Park had gotten
a new organ and so I was on that committee and visited a lot of
American organ builders at the time and learned something about the
process of specifying an organ. I got lots of books from the library
and saw what the specifications were of the organs that Bach had
played on and many organs from the Netherlands and different parts of
the world. That was a good background and at Stanford we have four
organs and I could play on each one and listen carefully to the
different notes, get a feel for how they balanced and then communicate
as well as I could to Abbott and Sieker down in Los Angeles. So
finally they finished the design and their shop isn't tall enough to
hold the organ, it was in three pieces, they brought it in the truck
up here and installed it. It's only lived here in my home but it's
quite a nice, quite a fine organ for in a person's home. Usually a
home organ has to be so small that you can't get very many different
kinds of tone quality on it but they were able to make it so that I
have dozens and dozens of different combinations that work well.)

