## [9 - Feeling the need to prove myself](http://webofstories.com/play/17068)

My parents were asked whether or not they should advance me a grade,
because I was doing well in school. And they; in fact I was born in
January, which meant that **I was older than most of the kids in my
class**, because if I’d been born in December, I would have gone to
school a year earlier, so I was one of the oldest in my class, and my
parents, you know, a lot of kids at that time were being pushed ahead
in school, and one of my friends, you know, graduated from college when
he would normally have been entering high school.

Well I, but I’m glad
that they resisted this, because it gave me this time for all these
extra-curricular activities, so I was always into a lot of things. **I
mean sports; I was a terrible athlete**. I’m tall, but my left hand
doesn’t know what the right hand is doing, so I would only get in the
game after we were already behind by 50 points, and, but I was the
scorekeeper. 

I was a terrific scorekeeper, you know, so I became
**manager of many of the sports teams** in high school, and also in
college. I was manager of the cross-country team, I was manager of the
basketball team, I was manager of the baseball team, so **I was a six or
seven letter man without being able to do anything athletics**, you know,
whatever. 

But I’m sitting there at the score table during the
basketball tournament, and- a basketball game, and like, I’m talking a
mile a minute to **keep the other scorekeeper confused**, so that he
wouldn’t know, you know, if somebody said, who’s the fouler? And I
could tell them, you know, who the foul was on, based on, you know,
**who it was most desirable for us to have the foul be on, rather than
the person who really committed the foul**, because the guy’s, you know,
very mixed up by the way I’m talking. But anyway, I don’t think I won
too many games at the scoring table, but I was the person who went
along with the team and kept the scorebooks.

But all these
extra-curricular activities were something that I had time to do,
because my parents hadn’t advanced me, and so you know, I could do
well in my classes but also participate in lots of other things.

Now
my, but, you know, so here I am, doing rather well at school, but I’ve
still got an **inferiority complex**. I’m still always trying to prove
myself. I’m thinking, you know, maybe I’m not getting it well, and in
fact, so I was probably taking, you know, studying hard and **getting
100s** on these exams, because I’m **trying to prove that I knew it**. You
know; if I was really overconfident, so confident, I wouldn’t have
bothered to study. And that was, so that was one of the child’s eyes
looking at it. I’m always scared that I’m not going to do well, so I
was working hard at schoolwork. 

The funny thing was that my; when I
was being advised what to do for college, well, everybody in my school
took a whole bunch of tests, national tests, and one of the tests was
vocational, you know, what job are you cut out for? And I remember
that that, **according to that test, I should be an architect**, and I
should not be a veterinarian. I scored extremely low on veterinarian
skills, but for architect, that seemed to be the career path that was
recommended to me.

But the, and I won scholarships to different
colleges, but the people at my high school, the Vice Principal called
me in; he said, **“Don, I think you’re going to be a failure in
college”**. He said, you know, you’ve done well here in high school, but
college is completely different, and you’re just, you know, it’s just
going to be too much for you, you’re not going to, you aren’t going to
make it. And, well, so **he scared me** again, and when I got to college I
kept studying. 

In fact, just the week before college, the Dean of
Students, whoever it was, told us. I went to Case institute of
Technology in Cleveland, which was at that time not yet connected with
Western Reserve University. So I went to Case, and the Dean of Case
says to us, says, it’s a all men’s school, says, “Men, look at, look to
the person on your left, and the person on your right. One of you
isn’t going to be here next year; **one of you is going to fail.**” So I
get to Case, and again I’m studying all the time, working really hard
on my classes, and so for that I had to be kind of a machine.

I, the
calculus book that I had, in high school we — in high school, as I
said, our math program wasn’t much, and **I had never heard of calculus
until I got to college**. But the calculus book that we had was great,
and in the back of the book there were supplementary problems that
weren’t, you know, that weren’t assigned by the teacher. The teacher
would assign, so this was a famous calculus text by a man named George
Thomas, and I mention it especially because it was one of the first
books published by Addison-Wesley, and I loved this calculus book so
much that later I chose Addison-Wesley to be the publisher of my own
book. 

But Thomas’s Calculus would have the text, then would have
problems, and our teacher would assign, say, the even numbered
problems, or something like that. **I would also do the odd numbered
problems**. In the back of Thomas’s book he had supplementary problems,
the teacher didn’t assign the supplementary problems; I worked the
supplementary problems. I was, you know, I was scared I wouldn’t learn
calculus, so I worked hard on it, and it turned out that of course it
took me longer to solve all these problems than the kids who were only
working on what was assigned, at first. But after a year, I could do
all of those problems in the same time as my classmates were doing the
assigned problems, and **after that I could just coast in mathematics**,
because I’d learned how to solve problems. So it was good that I was
scared, in a way that I, you know, that made me start strong, and then
I could coast afterwards, rather than always climbing and being on a
lower part of the learning curve.

