## [90 - The pipe organ (Part 3)](http://webofstories.com/play/17149)

Many Stanford students have given recitals here including Walter
Hewlett who's now one of the big people in the Hewlett Foundation and
director of Hewlett Packard, he was the son of the original
Hewlett. So it's been nice to have this also as now considered one of
the Stanford organs. I'm no great shakes as an organist but as a
computer scientist I'm okay, so this gives me an intro where I can go
many places in the world and people will show me their pipe organ and
allow me to play. And I don't have to be that good because I'm just a
computer scientist, I'm not supposed to be a musician. So I've played
on the most, in fact in Zurich last November I had an hour to play the
fantastic organ at the Fraumunster, the best organ in Zurich. I could
play the organ at Wanamaker's Department Store in Philadelphia, the
largest in the world and organs in Netherlands, the famous one at
Haarlem. And, well, in Kyoto there was a very fine organ with four
ranks of pipes that were based on Japanese instruments, quite
intriguing. I guess the, I hardly ever play in public, the only time
really was in Waterloo, Canada, where the professor of organ there and
I put on a program of organ duets and so some pretty interesting music
was written for two players, usually at one organ but in one case at
two organs. And that was, I mean I practiced pretty hard before that
occasion so that was kind of the high point of my organ playing of my
life.
 
How frequently do you play these days at home? 
 
I play in spurts, so sometimes I'll go for more than a month without
touching it and then I'll sit down and I'll play for three hours or
something like that. You know, it's a, I should really, you know, I
shouldn't penalize myself, I usually think oh, Don, you're behind on
this project, you can't afford to take time off and play. So I
shouldn't argue that to myself, I should allow myself to do it a bit
more. But I enjoy music very much and the pieces that, there are some
pieces written for organ that are so good that you never get tired of
them no matter how often you play them.)

