## [91 - An international symposium on algorithms in the Soviet Union](http://webofstories.com/play/17150)

I said that Analysis of Algorithms was what I wanted to call my life's
work, this is so, the field that I considered that, most of what I'd
done, including in writing "The Art of Computer Programming", is to
find a quantitative way to say how good a computer method is,
algorithms. So since I knew that algorithms was my great, you know, of
all the things that I enjoy and do, that this was somehow, had to be
number one, I was delighted to learn that the word algorithm comes
from Arabic, Al-Khwarizmi where Khwarizm is a region of Uzbekistan,
now, but at the time there was, it's the, there's a lake, I mean the
Aral Sea used to be called Lake Khwarizm. And it's a part of the world
that's pretty much forgotten, it's usually to the east, north, south
or west of whatever map you're looking at. If you look at a map of
Iran it's north of there, if you look at a map of Romania or something
it's east of there, if you look at India or Afghanistan it's west, you
know, south of Russia, it just doesn't appear, it's sort of a
forgotten part of the world. But I found out that that's where the
word algorithm comes from, Khwarizm. It means the person from the
Khwarizm area, actually there was a district of Baghdad which was the
Khwarizm district where maybe, you know, like the Armenians lived in
one place and they would call it the Armenian place, but this was the
Khwarizm quarter of Baghdad. So I thought, okay, it would be
interesting to go to Khwarizm sometime in my life and I looked up in
the atlas and, oh no, it's in the middle of the Soviet Union, how am I
ever going to get there, there's no roads going into it either showing
from any, you know. So I mentioned this to my friend Andrei Ershov who
was visiting from Russia, from the Soviet Academy of Sciences. Well,
he wasn't my friend at the time, I didn't know him very well, but he
was a friend of John McCarthy and we were at a party at John
McCarthy's house. And I said to him, you know, algorithms, the word
comes from this part of the world and it's in the Soviet Union, we
should celebrate this some time, wouldn't it be nice to have some kind
of a pilgrimage where computer scientists of the world can got to
Khwarizm and celebrate the birth of this subject. And he said, hey,
that sounds like a great idea. So he goes back home and he does all
the work arranging it and getting the Russian Academy of Science to
sponsor an international symposium on algorithms to last two weeks and
to take place in the Khwarizm oblast, the district of Uzbekistan that
everybody has forgotten. So not only did I get to go to Khwarizm but
when I get off the plane I'm greeted by 200 children carrying flowers,
and, you know, and interviewed on local television. And it was the
first time anybody in the world had shown interest in their part of
the world, so we had, you know, the tremendous hospitality of the
people in the Mid East is amazing. In fact, you know, the hosts were
so generous I said jokingly well, how about providing me with a- not
concubine but anyway, you know, I'm sure he would have believed me and
done it unless I had really assured him that I was joking. And we
could visit, right near where we were is a kind of museum city of
Khiva, which is really where the author, al-Khwarizmi was from, well,
I'm not sure but anyway it's a kind of a preserved city which shows
all the great things of that culture. And at this conference half of
the people were Soviet Union and half of them were from the rest of
the world and we could just meditate on the significance of
algorithms, so it was another highlight of my life I guess, to be able
to accomplish that little visit and see that corner of the
world. Amazingly we met children in this village, many different
nationalities, blonde, blue-eyed kids, some of them with Korean
ancestry and we visited the cotton farms and picked cotton. We saw
lots of, you know, I got myself a cap like the people wear in Khwarizm
so that when I'm working on algorithms I can be properly dressed.)

