## [92 - The Knuth-Morris-Pratt algorithm](http://webofstories.com/play/17151)

There was a story really behind every paper that I wrote pretty much
and this one is a kind of interesting story. The algorithm itself has
became famous but not, I'm not sure, well, I haven't had to use it
myself for the last 20 years but it's in all the textbooks and it
makes a nice instructive example of if you're trying to search through
a long piece of text and you're looking for a certain word- suppose
I'm looking for the word, well, the, or something like that, it would
be foolish to look for that word, let's look for Dikran or
something. Okay, so I can go until I, so the obvious way is you start
at every place in the text and you say is it a D? oh yes; then you
look at the next letter, is it an I? is it a K? no, this is the word
direction or something. All right well then go to the next place and
start over again, is that a D? Well all we observed was that you
already know that it's an I, it's not a D so you might as well skip
ahead a little further before you make your next test. Well, there's
more to the story than that though, you can have more complicated
words, like you were looking up the word Didymus or something where
there's a couple of Ds and so you'll have- But the interesting thing
in this case was that a professor at Berkeley, Steve Cook had proved a
very amazing theorem. He said that if you could, if you took a certain
kind of computer that's very limited in its capability, and if you
could write a program for that dumb kind of computer to solve a
problem, no matter how slow that program was then there was a fast way
to write a program for a real computer. In other words if you take a
particular limited computer and if it can solve a problem at all then
there's a fast way to do it on a real computer. So one of the problems
that we could solve with this funny computer was to decide whether a
string of letters was a palindrome, whether or not it read the same
backward and forward, no, sorry, was a concatenation of palindromes,
so a palindrome followed by another palindrome and so on. It was just
a curiosity, I mean nobody really cares about concatenations of
palindromes but there it was, and so according to Cook's theorem,
since there was a way for this funny machine to recognise these
palindromes, then there must be a fast way to recognise these
concatenations of palindromes on a regular computer. But I couldn't
think of any good way to do it on a regular computer, it just seemed
to me that that was going to be a much harder problem. So, I thought I
was a pretty good programmer but here is this theorem saying that
there's a way to do it and I can't think of the way to do it. That was
the first time that I was sort of stumped this way by somebody saying
that he had a good way and I couldn't think of it. And so I took an
afternoon, or maybe an afternoon/evening and I worked out in great
detail on a blackboard the way Cook's construction would have finally
given me a way on my regular computer to do it fast. And all of a
sudden, ah ha, of course, that's the trick. And so I was smoking out
the idea as to how this general theorem would apply to a real
programming problem and it occurred that this would also solve the
problem of searching in the text. So I mentioned this on a trip to
Berkeley where I met Vaughan Pratt and he was the one that made most
of the crucial insights, I was just the one that wrote it up
afterwards and then we found out that Jim Morris had discovered the
same idea a few months earlier and used it in software and that other
people had looked at this program and didn't understand it so they
took it out. But, anyway, it's a nice method for efficient searching
text but also good, instructive, to teach principles of computer
science so it's become famous and associated with my name. But I've
got 160 papers and each one of them has a, some kind of a little twist
to it that made it interesting to work on.)

