## [94 - My children: John](http://webofstories.com/play/17153)

Since the beginning I've tried to be a good father and not just an
absentee or something. I did spend a lot of time on writing my books
but I also spent a lot of time with them. One of my favorite papers
was inspired by them on a trip that we took in California, it's kind
of a joke paper called the "Complexity of Songs" and what we tried to
find was the longest song that you could have without knowing
much. And, you know, we would start out with songs like, "99 Bottles
of Beer on the Wall" and that didn't take much to memorize enough of
it to sing for a long time and then we went on to other, you know,
There's a Partridge in a Pear Tree. Anyway I could study each of these
songs from a mathematical standpoint to see how much, how long a
computer program it would take to generate the song to last a long
time. And my kids were part of this inspiration because we were on a
trip to Pinnacles National Monument and we were in the car and instead
of saying, daddy when are we going to get there, we were singing
songs. And then we ran out of songs and so we thought of this and it
led to an interesting mathematical problem and finally we came up with
the final solution which was yeah, yeah, I like it, yeah, yeah, I like
it repeated endlessly and that was the best solution to that
problem. I'm happy that I have some grandchildren now as well, four
boys. It seems that something in my mother- if she were alive today
she would have, I think it is ten grandchildren, great grandchildren,
all boys. So there's something funny going on here, it doesn't seem
quite random. But my son has, amazingly enough, became an athlete, his
dad is a complete slouch but John, when he was at Stanford was a world
class Ultimate player and was, you know, the most valuable player at
nation-wide tournaments. And then he became part of a semi
professional team and they came in second in the world several times,
and he being left-handed was apparently, that was an advantage of
somebody playing Ultimate, but a really difficult game, lots of
running and strategy going on. So people would come to me and I'd meet
a lot of people in other countries that know my son and never heard of
me, and this is very interesting because of his athletic ability. But
he also turned out to be a terrific teacher working with younger
students and he's been a high school math teacher now for more than
ten years. He went through Stanford's program called STEP, Stanford
Teacher Education Program and then taught local schools here, now he's
teaching in Colorado, and won award as the best math teacher in
Colorado at a private school or something like that. So he's in his
element, this is what my father was and, you know, I've always felt
that teaching is the thing that I, is my role. I teach through books
because this way I reach a lot more people, John doesn't like to
write, we talk to him instead of getting letters home. There's such a
need in this country now for people who are dedicated high school
teaching and it's such a thankless job because of modern high
schools. He was teaching kids who were on drugs and pregnant with huge
family problems and he didn't have the situation that a lot of
teachers have where people have guns in the school. But considering
the challenges and the low salaries that teachers get it seems we need
a real revolution in society so that the people, that people who have
the motivation to be good teachers are also properly rewarded and get
some credit for what they're doing. I've met a lot of heroic teachers
from Richmond, California, for example, who teach computer science
there and it's a hard life. They have to be supported by their spouses
and so does my son. His wife works for Sun Microsystems, telecommuting
and that means that they can make ends meet.)

