## [95 - My children: Jenny](http://webofstories.com/play/17154)

I'm very proud of my daughter who, right now, is not in a profession,
she's raising her two kids and she's quite active in La Leche
League. She and her husband lived at Oxford for several years and she
was- put on a lot of programs there while raising her kids and always
has many projects going. She also did things like coordinating the
exhibit of the artwork for my book, "3:16", which travelled around the
world. She's working on projects of creating museum displays and she's
an excellent proof reader and writer and right now, blogger. So it
seems that I've got these other parts of my life that I wanted to
mention too-
 
What did she study? 
 
She went to Brown University and she found out that if she took a
computer class at Brown that people would expect, her name was Knuth
and people would expect her to really excel and that so she, that
scared her out. I think actually she's very good at sciences but
instead, Brown University is unique in the freedom that it gives to
students to choose their own curriculum. They sort of, roll your own
style there which is well developed, and when she got there she
started reading the catalog at the letter A and in her freshman year
she took Art, Anthropology, Asian Literature, African History,
everything she saw in the catalogue that interested her but she never
got to the letter B. But she wound up as an Anthropology major at
Brown and then she was going to do her thesis in American, well, sort
of the Anthropology of America. And she had some, also some excellent
studies of the native houses in Antigua where she had gone on a dig
and she studied the evolution of forms in the, what do you call it,
the models in clothing stores- the-? I'm trying to think of the word.
 
Mannequins. 
 
Mannequins, yeah right. So studying the shapes of mannequins, you
know, through the ages and so indicating some kind of interest that
she was going to do. And she made a big study of, also of river
systems and how people dealt with flood control and trying to keep
rivers alive, quite a broad range of interests. She never found the
right adviser for her and when her husband got a position at MIT then
she took classes at Harvard and she could have finished there but then
he got a job at Oxford and so she's never finished her formal
education but she's done a lot of interesting contributions through
writing and I think right now she's got her hands full and doing
well. But in high school she showed strength in science. I always
thought that she, well, she was very quick and we play games a lot and
she always beats me and so does John.)

