## [96 - Working on a series of books of my collected papers](http://webofstories.com/play/17155)

The fact that I started swimming in the 90s also had a nice other
secondary effect and that's where I met you at the pool one day and
you said, why don't I, why don't we publish a book about literate
programming, this idea that you're so hot on. And I think, in fact, in
Japan such a book had come out already, that someone in Japan had
decided to write such a book. And I was, you know, I had plenty
already on my plate but then you went and got one of my best students
John Hobby to make a plan as to what such a book would contain and so
then I was sold on it. And in fact I got so hooked on the idea that I
was thrilled by the thought that I could have the papers that I'd
written, collected together and published during my lifetime. As a
person who uses libraries a lot I certainly make great use of
collected works of scientists and I know many volumes that I consult
frequently of the papers of mostly mathematicians, but physicists and
others. But these are almost always collected together after the guy
died and sometimes 100 years after the person died. So here was
something where you were actually proposing to take several of the
papers that I wrote that had literate programming as a unifying theme
and put them together in a book. That, once I realized how satisfying
this would be, you see, I have these 160 papers and I have reprints of
them all and they're all in different sizes and shapes and colors and
I always thought if my wife wanted to surprise me some day she could
have them nicely bound and then they wouldn't all be in such chaotic
form. But here you're saying no, not only could it be nicely bound it
could be, in fact, reprinted and I could even correct the mistakes
that I knew about in these papers. And you were going to do all the
work yourself and you had Beth Bryson taking care of it so she sent me
the cleanest copy. I mean I've never had a case before where somebody
had worked with my papers and presented me with something that I
didn't have to almost totally redo, this was before I met Silvio
Levy. And so I got a book that was amazingly attractive to me as well
as sort of fulfilling one of my dreams that I didn't know I had. And
then it developed then that all of my papers would appear in
subsequent volumes organized by the different topics, and so far, six
of those eight volumes are finished. And I must say how happy it makes
me to have them all in a consistent format and with the errors that I
know about, sucked out of them and put into context and sort of recast
the way I wish I'd written them in the first place. It gives me a
chance to, I mean they're not true to the historical record, if
somebody wants to know what error did I make in a certain year, you
know, they can look it up in the journal, but if they want to know
what excited me and why I wrote the paper and what I think is
important about that paper in the future, they can look at the book,
at these collected works that you've prepared, so there's six of eight
are done. The one that I'm dedicating to Bob Floyd is coming up next
and it's about the design of algorithms and the last one that I'm
saving for dessert is the one about fun and games that I've already
referred to. And so, as I was going through my priorities as to what
would I do if it was told that I only had a certain number of days to
live, it occurred to me that I really would very much like to have
those last two volumes of the collected papers finished. So I hope
that that works out. I've got, the part of Volume Four that I'm
working on right now I have to do first, but then I'm going to do
these other two collected papers, get them finished and continue on
Volume Four after that point, is my current thinking. The one book on
typography is a particular pleasure for me because it has lots of
great illustrations in it, but the book on analysis of algorithms is,
you know, that's my main life's research work and having all those
papers put together in one place is something that, you know, gives a
lot of fulfilment.)

