## [97 - Why I chose analysis of algorithms as a subject](http://webofstories.com/play/17156)

Speaking of analysis of algorithms quickly I should say that, you
know, I named the subject and I like it but I didn't mention the thing
that was sort of key in the beginning, why I thought that it would be
rich enough to serve as a life's work. And the reason is that when I
was working on a compiler in 1962 I took a day and I looked at an
algorithm called hashing, more specifically hashing with- it's called
linear probing, a certain kind of hashing. And I'd heard that some
students in Princeton had looked at this algorithm and they couldn't
figure out how fast it was going to run. And I had a few hours to kill
so I took a look at it and I got lucky and I saw how to analyze it and
prove exactly how fast it was going to run and this changed my life. I
said, wow, this was lots of fun working on this problem, figuring out
and so it turned out to be a beautiful mathematical problem although
it had come out of a totally practical computer science domain. And I
knew that there were many other problems in the theory, what's called
queuing theory, that are just special cases of certain kinds of
algorithms that had, and already this was a buzz word, queueing
theory, the study of the way queues behave. And that's just a special
case of a certain kind of algorithm, so if I consider the entire class
of all interesting algorithms then it's bound to be full of problems
just as interesting as queuing and hashing for which I knew that they
were there. So that's why right at that point I said mm, that wouldn't
be bad for a life's, to spend a lifetime on it because you have a huge
number of problems, not only do they have beautiful mathematical
structure that ties together, you know, hangs together in nice
patterns, but also there are customers out there so that when you
solve the problem the people say hey, thanks for solving the problem,
Don. So it's a great field to embark in and that has turned out to be
the case.)

End of The Book
